hello everyone and welcome to episode 3
of hot line League episode 3 was so big
we had to get a third guest or third
host we will add one new guest every
episode episode 10 we will have 10
people on the show that shows a little
getting bigger and better every week
and we've got even that he by the way he
even figure out the color scheme for the
show it's great once you do some in just
a second but first off I'm back
apologies it's been like six weeks since
we've done one of these shows mark and I
try to do it during World Cup and then
both of us were busy finally have a
chance to do it and what a good time so
much stuff to talk about how you doing
mark I'm doing great dude I got really
busy during worlds that all wrapped up
I've had like my week off and I'm ready
to talk about League of Legends what did
Joshua tree with my family that was
fucking miserable
I hate whores let's get inside let's
play with some neon lights League of
Legends okay and then this week we have
an ancient ghost of the past of
legalized in eSports
Kelvin Bay has go Kelby I'm doing really
great do you want them on that yeah yeah
so I used to run CLG back in the days
like first couple seasons of LCS and
then I went to eg and we got acquired by
twitch and then I ran eg for a while at
twitch and now I do sponsorship sales at
twitch where I work with eg Alliance TL
TSM and Team Liquid and help them
conflict of interest what do you mean
well let's ring sup let's bring some
people on the show and figure out if
it's collar just kidding alright okay
but yeah and so what why we were you
wanted to do a show tonight originally
it wasn't gonna be hot line League and
then mark wanted you hot lately so we
were able to merge it but what did you
play in particular why now are you
making your triumphant return to the
League of Legends commentary scene cuz
I'm
missed it after eSports and chilled out
and I'm also super excited that
franchising happened and now we get to
talk about everybody that's in and what
they're doing and what our expectations
are for LCS now that it's bigger and
better and now you know like just the
the whole scene has changed since
overwatch League and LCS franchise yeah
is there anything in particular you want
to do for like the theme of the show
because oftentimes we'll be like you
know we'll take call ins for whatever
because obviously it's the offseason but
is there like a particular thing you
want to talk to like the general public
about or is it just like all open anyone
who calls in whatever they want to talk
about see I was making let's go I was
just gonna say I think we should go over
I think we should spend the first part
of the show just going over the teams
and the branding and providing our
commentary on it and if what we think
works and what we think sucks and then I
think then we can start taking calls
based off of that and then we can sort
of expand into other topics as well on
the calls I want to get your guys
opinions on who's in the leak - yeah
yeah okay well while we run through all
ten pretty quick thanks I definitely
want to open the lines the people okay
all right so let's go ahead and dive in
I'm gonna go ahead and push this live
right now so we have as if for those
that don't know I'm sure everybody does
now the new LCS has officially been
announced all the teams have been
unveiled some of them - more claimed
than others and and so let's see we've
got TSM but I can't we can't ok
production we've got TSM gold are you
doing this yes gold Guardians cloud9 fly
quest what are you using to control this
echo fox is this like motion control a
fucking cop down us all hundred thieves
Team Liquid after Gary CLG that's your
chant everybody is so high level
production right there can we go one at
a time and like pause on our logo so
both we've reviewed the ten let's take
up no I'm just kidding okay so yeah how
do you argue this yours start off with
at the top
yeah if possible I mean okay I mean I
don't think it's it should be too crazy
for people to know that we had TSM get
him so no big surprise there we're not
we're not talking roster stuff right now
right no no no no yeah all right so TSM
they made it in are you shocked Kelby no
I don't think I don't think I don't know
unless Mark has a wild opinion I thought
that TSM c9 and CLG and Team Liquid
which may be surprising to some people
but I thought those teams were a hundred
percent Locke's going into franchising
process if I was Riot personally for me
those teams are hundred percent longs
for the most parts they're completely
agree I mean we can borderline skip over
them just because any team that has been
in the LCS since the very beginning as
well as before the LCS and for the most
part have been competitive teams I think
it was pretty pretty likely they were
going to make it in yeah yeah I mean
those are the four most popular teams
and the four teams with the most
consistent results except for immortals
but we'll talk about them okay let's
talk about golden Guardians so this is
the gold state warriors for those of you
that don't know or a really big I'm led
to believe a big basketball team mark is
this yeah they are they won they won
some stuff they have some superstars on
it they spend a lot of money you know
all good things
yeah well so get here one of the big
things that everybody talked about is
that they try to like buy success and
they spend huge dollars and so like
there's a lot of chatter about this on
the on the bet for the basketball team
but for fans that aren't or people that
don't know about the NBA maybe you can
help sort of explain context for that I
mean so basketball is weird because
there is a salary cap but you can
basically choose to ignore it
what happens is you get into what is
called the luxury tax range and you just
pay literally double on your contracts
basically same for baseball right no
baseball they just have these have
whatever I think they're just completely
open but they have some limiting system
but I don't think it's I looked this up
recently but it's not
official salary go yeah and and Bassett
but there's a couple other rules for
like exactly who you can get and how and
when based off this but for the most
part if you draft a couple good players
like they did with Steph Curry and I
think they drafted klay Thompson or they
got him right away and those guys
developed into really good players and
then they dropped the fatty of sign and
Kevin Durant and that's when they became
like God mode but they and they had
already drafted it pretty well and we're
like on the come up and then they just
kind of exploded with with like getting
the largest renamed agent I'm being
corrected by the way baseball does have
luxury capped X and and caps so you know
it's all it's boring yeah sure that's at
which that for corrector so anyway they
so these guys have spent a lot of money
to get a lot of talent for their
basketball team they were on the right
track beforehand all right the most
important thing to talk about here is
that logo all right I like it it's been
a little controversial I like it it has
it been controversial I feel like it was
interesting because it almost felt
strategic the way that the golden
Guardians stuff got leaked announced
because I think a lot of people didn't
like cliff city I or a hundred thieves
and then the golden Guardians came out
it was like oh that's not that bad which
by the way in terms of I feel like if
you can launch a name in a brand and
people say oh that's not that bad like
you have succeeded that's all yeah no
one is ever gonna be super excited
anything that's not outright hate is
good yeah do you guys think that riot
block them from using the initials GG
because I can't imagine why you would
use GG s hmm I don't know
alright cuz I assume like I just assumed
they would use GG and I write them right
it was like now you can't use it yeah I
feel like GG's probably preferred yeah
yeah I can understand right choosing the
block it to like GG is literally
something there's like the the caster's
say when a game is over there you know
it would be weird to be like I'm calling
myself the homerun yeah and you're like
you can't call your fucking selves the
homerun yeah I just I I wish that they
could have used it because I actually
think that
would have been it would've been better
here so help me how do you like the logo
I like the logo it's not like something
that is super amazing to me but but it's
fine and I like the name as well yeah
and the logo is cool because this is
kind of similar to the Warriors logo
right mark yeah it's the same yeah a
reference to the bridge a little bit
here you can kind of see it kind of also
looks like a spaceship so I don't know
it's a it's a nice Mary it's like a
Protoss sword I think I thought they
also did really good with their
announcement it's a sword a lot of
spaceship what the hell their
announcement yeah they they didn't tweet
anything the opening day they didn't
think until day - yeah I actually agree
I like that because everyone like put
everything out at the same time and it's
like there's only so much time in the
day yeah you know I was being sarcastic
I was making fun of them for dropping
them all on that oh I actually like it
dude fuck you there were so many
announcements I was just like I'm not
gonna read here yeah I read them all in
anticipation of this conversation so
okay so go so I thought you know pretty
good I don't know if we have anything
else to say about them but I think it's
exciting to have them in the league and
I'm really interested they do because my
understanding is they are not just like
a successful team on the court but they
are pretty successful from a business
perspective as well and they've done
really good job like monetizing in the
NBA and all kind of stuff so I'm hopeful
like I I keep saying this all these
vlogs like this the LCS now needs to
actually fucking try to be a successful
business over the next couple years and
I'm hopeful that these companies are
gonna help make that shit happen we'll
talk about that when we talk about
rosters yeah okay I'm sure it'll come up
yeah well let's quickly go through the
rest of you so that we do get close okay
yeah okay so so CMS United we don't need
to talk about fly quests
oh boy I like this rebrand closer to the
Milwaukee Bucks color scheme also
doesn't look like a fucking Pokemon so
that's a huge step up yeah I like the
logo a little bit more too but it feels
like something from Toy Story like Buzz
Lightyear status I can see that yeah I
think I I think it's better because they
were the worst logo in the league before
but I mean fly Quest was the team to me
and Travis you know because we talked
about this all the time fly quest was
the team to me that there is no way that
they make it in through franchising I
was like it's impossible dude and
somehow they did it so I would love to
be a fly on the wall during the
conversations for application because
they just didn't show anything to me as
far as like if I was an org that was
already in the LCS and already had my VC
group in my mind that is the group that
gets most heavily scrutinized by riot
going through the application process
because like for existing teams that are
already in the league and has
established like popularity results you
know that or hope certainly that with
outside money it will allow them to take
the success that they've already found
and multiply a couple you know levels
like CLG z9 team liquid and you know TSM
probably gets VC in the future as well
for the orgs that are already in like
Dignitas who already had 76ers backing
and envious who already had backing and
fly quests like those guys you already
have the money infusion that you're
going to expect so there's a lot of onus
for me personally in evaluating those
teams and saying like hey you have the
resources now like you need to show me
what you're gonna do and they didn't do
anything for me so like I they had
horrible branding they didn't put up
results I didn't see them making an
effort and I don't know yet woman by the
way that is if you look like everybody
has these little
Alliance underneath um like will scroll
up cloud lines it's like entered the NA
LCS with the bang of 2013 I've been
winning ever since well flight Quest is
literally like coming back stronger with
a dedication to long-term growth and if
you read the scene or you if you read
their description it's like fly quests
are also focused on becoming the most
fan centric teach etc it's just very
funny because like their whole
description is basically like I tweeted
this is like fly us now actually giving
a shit
that's so to play a little bit of the
worst devil's advocate you've ever met
um you know you talked about Dignitas to
talk about key one and those guys tried
but they failed fry quests didn't even
try that little pamphlet they put
together at you know liquid had that
microsite that kind of went through when
it went into the application maybe they
just built the craziest best application
you've ever seen yeah I saw I saw that
application tiel's application blew me
away something about it today I read
they have a microsite you can go to I
don't know what the fuck a microsite is
but that's what they call it it's like a
dedicated site yeah fly quests then like
opening announcement video to was just
like I don't know it didn't sit well
with me dude like turtle fvn with the
half-turn like yeah are you ready or you
know it's just are you because they went
through the whole like black enola
monologue and I was just like man this
is who was the team Oh
Excelsior and overwatch yeah hit me it
hit me like Excelsior's met video hit me
dude but I don't know we'll see you're
shot dude I just I just super fancy to
know how those conversations with
because yeah because fly quest would
have been near the bottom right and I'm
not saying I I don't want people to
think that I'm saying this maliciously
like flight quest was like a shit org I
think they were just like a neutral org
like they just you know and so I I'm
super fascinating know how the
conversation went and I just loved all
that their messaging like riot and their
messaging they decided on like and now
we're we're focused on the long-term you
know like we're as if before like
we were focused on the show I don't know
it's like what I'll say just to wrap it
up we're not being mean on my quest but
just like literally hi said they didn't
have any analysts and then their analyst
tweeted what hello I helped him guys out
all the times if you want wonder how
that team was structured that there's
that little storyline that complex made
it in I assume
I've said this before I think echo fox
made it in in December 2016 when they
did not sign a LCS forever document yeah
it's like this is our application right
we're not being submitting anything
specifically dot our signature at the
bottom of the Celsius forever document
right the other thing they did which was
something that didn't get that much news
when it happened but they finally
included it in the bottom thing was that
they got extra funding from somebody I
can't remember who it's at the bottom of
the little blurb there oh yeah the
Yankees which people thought like you
know Rick Fox owns this team but they
actually I think sold a lot of the
company yeah they were always like a big
VCE thing yeah yeah they gave away a lot
of control a while ago so I'm just glad
that more people will see that now and
not just be like yeah Rick Fox owns the
team okay clutch gaming I like the logo
actually best new logo hands down you
think so
I like the guardians logo more but I
love the idea of seeing this on a hat
like this is a hat logo oh sure
so I'll say I like it because one the CG
works in there they tied in the Houston
Star it's simple I like that but it's
still a step up from just the fly quest
one where it's just like let's put our
letters together and dropping city is
really good because like everything
about that their brand now makes it so
that you can leverage like the Houston
identity to the people that it'll relate
to but like it could it's like a
successful it stands on its own like the
heat I didn't even know I guess that's
the star is it is it a Texas Star or is
it a Houston star it's Texas I think
it's a Texas star but specifically
either way like different stuff even if
you saw that you know somebody who's in
Germany and has never been familiar with
like that I don't
is gonna actually think it could be cool
to that person so so these guys were the
Houston Rockets I it's it's super
interesting so for those that don't know
behind the scenes like these guys hired
Houston Rockets hired a guy to help them
figure out their eSports plans like a
year ago or maybe even more like they
did the long term bet on on this thing
and so it's actually kind of impressive
to see and I'm very fast to see how that
team performs and on what they available
in everyone else comes because they've
basically had like forever to build like
think about it this way they have been
working on their LCS team for as long as
flight quest has been so so so super
they got a they got chakras in there I'm
pretty sure oh yeah yeah so I'm hype on
those guys and like their whole thing
the Rockets I think are really big on
hey Louise data and analytics to help us
succeed and so it's kind of cool that
they and their description here seem to
be pulling that back in I don't know if
we have anything else to talk about with
clutch but that's cool no okay now
here's because you said we're not gonna
like your answer yeah it is my favorite
of the new branding Oh have you guys
seen the like tip style version that
they did a bit to where it says 100 T or
whatever yeah like 100 T 100 Cielo okay
so the on the clutch city one like I
think the clutch city one looks really
good as they have it right there all
stylized and with the CG and you know
particle effects but like flat on the on
the page I don't like it as much I think
that the the Hunter T stylized
especially I like I know it's it's it's
just you know what I realize it is how
do you like because Kelby for those that
don't know was like a myspace scenester
kid forever ago and I feel like this is
this is what this all makes sense no
because everything I hate about hundred
themes is like everything I would have
hated
he'll be all right back of the day like
this is this is like some kid wearing
this on the black of back of a black
hoodie we're wearing tight jeans walking
down the road like and you know what
there's probably a lot of people like
that that are fans the LCS so maybe
that's what I will say is at least like
the name hunter thieves doesn't come out
of nowhere it wasn't like they were just
like this is a cool name like it was it
kind of does to the league fans like I
oh sure though what the hell hundred
thieves is like yeah but they're trying
to at least like tie it in with a
nadeshot thing which is I mean you could
just come up with a better brand you
know I'm not saying you couldn't do that
but it's not like this they just came up
with this like Jewish is what people are
gonna love like at least it's not that
bad like that way I guess I just I think
the Hydra team's name by the way I hate
the hundred thieves named like do you
hate it worse than the name fly quest uh
well so I think it's a great question I
think what flight quest proves is in a
year from now I will hopefully not give
a shit about the hundred thieves name
and it'll just be whatever because I've
heard it but like I just hate like the
hundred thing like I almost kind of like
fly quest more because it's literally
just like whatever it's it's two words
fly quest like flies like an
aspirational word and question
aspirational word yeah they kind of feel
funky next to each other but 100 thieves
is just like yeah there's a hundred of
us we're the thieves if there's a
hundred there's only room for 100 hands
on this bandwagon boys but also I think
you're a fan of the hundred of the thief
it's like if there's gonna be four other
game divisions yeah like these thieves
would have just been a better like you
can't just do thieves yeah
thieves scheming or something like that
is is better than a hundred thieves like
and I'm worried because I've got
shitting on a fly and I have I've never
met nadeshot in my life I have no formal
business relationship with these guys
I've probably already got myself
blacklisted but just don't worry he's
got like three million YouTube subs
you'll be fine if if they learn anything
learn from Steve and just fucking meme
your name
all right don't don't try and be like no
it's really cool cuz these reason just
be like yeah we're the hundred thieves
yeah and just figure out some way to
joke about it
speaking of joking about it the Team
Liquid tagline is one of the original
burn City sports leading the way with
pro development I love this just because
that stat about how many people have
been on Team Liquid previously and then
our Dow on other teams it's like yeah
team like with the the development house
for pro players that's where they go and
they develop and then they go on to
other teams it's like there are more
humans alive on earth today than in all
of history it's like there's more
players on TL right now yeah and they've
ever had before
yeah so on T all getting in really quick
if I had to pick only one team to make
LCS franchising it would actually be
really close for me between TL and TSM
and I think for a lot of people that's
really weird but I personally believe
that TL does like their results have not
been obviously nearly what TSM c9 or
even immortals have been but I think
that they do things the right way in
regards to like thinking about things
infrastructure development which I think
will bear out to be really really
important long term like a lot of the
orgs I expect now especially with
franchising locked in to do a lot more
building out of their infrastructure
like when you look at TL as an
organization and the staff that they
have on hand and what is in my mind
ideal to support an organization they're
doing things the right way especially in
regards to account managers fucking
coaching staff content development like
their content team their announcement
video so good I personally like their
Anna Johnson in there a lot yeah and the
and the the I'd like they leaning into
the like you know the whole paid by
Steve meme which i think is really good
and the other like you know fun video
that they did I think that t/o has a lot
of things right in regards to
philosophical approach and some of the
executional stuff they'll figure out
along the way they have
and other games and I think it'll bear
cross the League of Legends and I think
we're already seeing some of it with
some of the roster stuff that's going on
so what I'll say is like no teams great
forever like the Lakers
you know they had periods where they
suck they always turned around for the
most part so I don't think like a
two-year slump in the grand scheme when
you look at like how sports really play
out isn't that that bad yeah and I think
it baby when you say they're their staff
has been good I don't think you're just
you're talking about specifically
coaching staff which is I think where
people's like thoughts on it and when
you say staff but like yeah yeah upper
level management of the company is
really really good yeah all right oh go
ahead
no no go as I say let's move on to optic
yeah so again a well done brand yeah I
wanted to help you you know all the
other horse it seems like you should go
through optic I don't know what optic is
at all they don't have a league team
yeah I mean Travis you know from our
earlier conversations that I was saying
that optic was the team outside of the
existing like teams already in LCS that
it's already an established eSports team
that I was hoping would get in the most
yeah I did not expect them to like I was
surprised that they took a established
eSports team over another traditional
sports team like I would have expect
like I'm not saying it's a wrong thing
right but given rights goals and stuff I
was surprised that they took they like
brought in another err endemic eSports
work they do they do such a good job
outside like in all the games that they
participate in obviously especially like
the console titles which is their their
oral strength because I think it's the
space that you know when you have
success in one you can lean naturally to
another but they do content right it's
how they have such an engaged in diehard
fan base they do merchandising well and
I have really been looking for that in
the League of Legends space more and
that's why you know like I said I really
like I really like Legends I really like
what Team Liquid does around the content
of all you know their different game
divisions and I think that optic
comes in and helps apply that pressure
to other organizations to do that in
this space as well and I'm sure it'll be
really good at it yeah I think that
results are so let's look at na LCS
holistically a little bit right now the
strength of the league has always been
its popularity obviously not results at
Worlds and I don't expect results at
Worlds to change anytime soon to be
honest but viewership for LCS has not
been doing as well as it had been it's
been going down over the past two years
and I think that these guys coming in
helping hopefully create a good squad
build good narrative and providing more
guidelines for other teams in the league
to do the same will be really really
good and so I'm excited to see them in
the LCS I heard they're only gonna use
champions with guns cuz they but I mean
couple you didn't explain these guys are
a first-person shooter like console org
right yeah yeah they started and Call of
Duty that's where up that's where
nadeshot started nadeshot and hector
really built that brand and they show
doing hundred thieves yeah yeah so I
think that like if you look at their
YouTube following and their Twitter
following like they just shit on every
existing LCS team like it's not even
close they they completely blow everyone
out of the water so yeah I think that'll
be really good yeah all right and then
the final team and I think right after
this will go into questions actually
here let me go ahead and put the discord
info up so that people can compete let
me explain it real quick yeah so the way
this works guys is go join that discord
I hope I love it copy and pasted it's
also gonna be in chat in the second here
and what you do once you join the
discord is get into the general voice
Channel not just the the text channel
but the the voice Channel so I'll be
able to drag you into our waiting room I
will select people based off what you
tell me that you want to talk about in
the actual general chat so we'll just
say you know type what you want to talk
about if it looks interesting I'll drill
dragging into the waiting room I'll make
sure your mic and everything's working
and then we'll get you on air soon after
that so you know if you haven't yet
joined the discord join the general chat
and then will prompts you guys when to
type in your questions when we're
looking for new people and the questions
I think will be maybe we can block out
the show we should've talked about this
beforehand but maybe we can block up the
show so we'll take some questions about
the franchise stuff and we'll talk about
that for a while and maybe 15 20 minutes
and then we can come back and talk about
roster change rumors I think I think
roster changes well we'll see what
twitch chat says but I have a feeling
that's what a lot of twitch chat is
interested in yeah maybe maybe we put a
little bit more time to that we'll see
okay well either way I just I figure
breaking out the shows so first we're
talking about the later on we're going
like because I'm sure all of us are
gonna want to talk about the roster
change rumors before we even get into
the questions so either way would you a
couple teams to suffer yeah sure okay so
let's go ahead and pull the discourse
stuff down the final while we're just
pulling going in oh and the other thing
I'll say is that we try to get subs in
just out of respect for the people who
sub but no promises and I think there is
a way to link twitch subs to discord I
need to figure out how to do that and
then in the future it'll be even better
either way so counter logic gaming the
last team to make it in this is a joke
these guys don't deserve to be here get
them the fuck out LCS why ever had a
good person writing them I heard Nick
Allen read what excuse me yeah exactly
to not let them and it's that Nick Allen
is back yeah and the League see exactly
Nick on and Calvi so I would have
rejected their application on that basis
alone in my mind CLG has always had
amazing leadership pick a little expand
they're just continuing the legacy of
great leadership now I think maybe their
most recent person is their greatest
mistake either that or the person that
they had in like 2014-2015 but yeah the
guy always gone by 2015 were you
yeah I left late 2014 September 2014
really yeah because I was there I was
there 2012 through 2014
yep thank you and I'm sick for the sub
three years of Amazon stock baby let's
go I'm gonna go hop into the waiting
room because it sounds like we don't
have too much to say about CLG for sure
we want to talk about immortals at all I
guess maybe beer yeah let's do that
so immortal about making it I think like
know first off do we all agree not too
surprising Phoenix 1 and V and dig 2
that we could've I think there was a
line that we were all wondering where
like riot would land on because I think
some of us were in the camp that like
there's gonna be almost no new teams and
then some of us said there's only going
to be the large existing brands and it
was just a question of where and that
scale they're gonna land obviously they
ended up more on the large existing team
side and that's why those other three
teams once you realize that they're not
accepting people like that that all of
them don't make it
smithy and the twitch chat right now
saying rip forward pour pour some out
for mortals actually already spilled
water on my floor so I don't care that I
dig dig was my number two team behind
fly quest that I thought should not make
it end because they had been in the
league since the start and done nothing
yeah over that period of time in our I
had BC didn't have results the net
popularity they ain't get any viewership
on their games they hadn't done anything
with their money I'm like you had your
chance dude I'm sorry like yeah it's
hard hard to make that argument for me I
thought immortals you know Travis I
thought immortals I was very surprised
to see them not make it in and even more
than like fly quest saving themselves
I'd be like yeah how did this get messed
up because you come into sin c9 I think
they've been the most successful team
entering the league it's really hard to
LCS and just be like oh yeah we're gonna
start winning right away like c9 did
immortals did that without getting like
just a great roster right off the bat
they kind of
built it and they won more
regular-season games in the time they
were in the league than anybody else and
they like I thought they did a good job
with branding and content and like not
anything that personally like blew me
away but of the orgs like coming into
the league showing that you can do a
good job I was like damn like these guys
are super solid dude so there must have
just been and Travis I thought your
video was really good there's something
that happened in the diligence that goes
on behind the scenes that must have been
I can only imagine related to business
philosophy practices blah blah blah
that's clearly because they're an
overwatch league Kelby it's obviously
not because there's other teams I mean I
know you're being sarcastic but for
people who are serious when they say
that there's other teams in overwatch
League in LCS it's it's got to be and
it's not necessarily I'm not necessarily
la1 this would be keep going on yeah I
think that I think that there's probably
just a difference in business philosophy
if I had to like make a guess which I I
gotta say I don't necessarily know that
this is anything near the truth
if I were riot one of the things that
would be a super big signal to me would
be what is your ability to attract large
brands from a sponsorship side into this
scene to help grow it optics some of
these teams that have come in either
through their NBA connections or already
like optic is done a super good job
attracting non endemics to their brand
and immortals for their time and success
in the LCS like they had results and
they did good content they'd if you look
at them on the sponsorship front are
pretty weak really and I don't know
maybe riot was not convinced in that
matter and that was important to them
yeah yeah but that's just me like well
completely either way happy to take
calls from anybody about any if you have
an opinion about one of the brands if
you think we're wrong and you know want
to make an argument about Digg or envy
or Phoenix
they need to be in if you think it's
atrocious about IMT and you want to talk
about that feel free to join I'm gonna
put the stuff up there mark is gonna hop
down and grab our first person right now
yeah I got our first one waiting he
wants to talk about 100 thieves it's not
the worst I believe also Steve liquid 1
1 2 are we sure this liquid yeah it's
him he tweeted at us I'm pretty him so I
don't know how highly we want to
prioritize celebrities I think this is a
show for the common person yeah
well that's amazing let's Chris yeah
here yeah let's put up a second and also
make sure Steve had like do we know what
Steve wants to do or is he just get a
lot of me like hi I'm sure Steve can
afford our appearance fee yeah that's
true yeah yeah Oh Steve is so generous
in the disk or he says he can go first
person
all right so mark hop down there while
Mark is figuring stuff out I'll just
give a shout-out to some people who sub
because it's really nice to them zodiac
sheep forth Colin Kiwi mullet boy a
cheerio and M sick there's a couple
others but for some reason my stream
guys right yes who do we got so we have
a Mattei I believe joining us Matea
where are you from who are you and what
do you want to talk about
I'm from good old North America it's
very broad nice look just just shitty
old Memphis Tennessee I just wanna like
touch on specifically ggs and like a
hundred beeps because I feel like the
League of Legends community just from
what I've been reading on always bright
Reddit and Twitter like I've seen a lot
of hate for nadeshot specifically and
the hundred thief's name and brand
compared to almost none for ggs well I
think I think part of the problem is is
ggs has absolutely done dog shit like
they tweeted out a day late and that's
it like and their merch has to be some
of the worst merch I've ever seen really
why don't you like about that much can
you can you all look up a link for you
Travis oh let me find it
dude this first car is lit a is are we
pronouncing your name correct
I met say my tape doesn't matter man
okay so what are you okay are you more
defending nadeshot
and hundred thieves or are you more
dissing on GG es ah it's a combination
of those look I don't know it's like
it's more like the the problem I have is
like I I can understand if people would
say like you know I don't think some of
these things about a hundred thieves are
alright if like I saw as much of an
uproar over GG s because like everyone
is just completely silent on how bad
they have entered so far mm-hmm when
they're there the Golden State Warriors
like their their former NBA champions
they should be coming in hot yeah that's
where it's just it's just cold man like
I like I think yeah the biggest problem
with me is just their merch it has to be
just awful it's literally their logo on
a blue background and the kind of golden
or clutch the golden golden he doesn't
know Matea can I ask some contextual
quick questions that will lead into some
other stuff okay who are you an LCS fan
of right now like what teams do you like
probably uh I find myself a big fan of
CLG really yeah it's like just their
brand feels very authentic sometimes
yeah uh you know like I guess like west
where it just feels like money thrown
together are you like a die-hard CLG fan
are you kind of like a general League
fan and Cl just as a team you like most
yeah just generally fan I just
appreciate players performing well okay
what generally attracts you to like one
team versus another that you're hoping
to see from these new entrants like you
said that CLG authenticity from the
brand feels like something that you
personally like I mean not to sound like
ahead of riot but like some good content
finally being made hmm and some good
merch like that I would appreciate that
like I understand they're gonna have
roster problems the first like the first
split or two so I'm just really looking
at it like they hit the ground running
with content and merch like that'll be
cool I'll be a fan of their team that
they can do that what what do you know
see from content and merch right now
that you wish teams would do or do you
not know what it is you just don't like
what exists um specifically like merch
like actual good merch if you look at
hundred thiefs merch and particularly it
is like it's stylish it's fashion like
it's something you would wear out
whereas like this Golden State Warriors
stuff I'm not gonna wear this out like
what I think yeah is interesting today
is my boy yeah I I suspected that the
golden Guardians merch was based off of
Golden State Warriors merch but so then
I clicked over the Golden State Warriors
merch and I feel like all the Golden
State warrior stuff is way cooler which
probably you know it makes sense cuz
obviously they've probably got like
giant merch team and they've been
iterating on the stuff a ton but like it
is interesting that they didn't just
take some of similar designs maybe they
were afraid to or they just don't want
to make someone too much but I will say
the Golden State Warriors stuff seems
more expensive than gold guardians so
you're getting just kind of drape yeah
that is true I mean I guess it could be
kind of stereotypical to say it but I
mean basketball has always been like
toe-to-toe with fashion you know
sneakers and bad things so especially
for a basketball team to come in and
just have such a terrible merch no
surprise okay well that's that's the
thing you know gamers are known for
their their fashion for sure I'm gonna
challenge you here though I will
challenge you here though because you
you are defending hundred thieves a lot
and while it is true that hundred
thieves did put out a video their video
was just like and this is this telling
me I didn't talk about a few minutes but
it was just need shop being a youtuber
what up guys nadeshot you know Buster
jump cuts my team's coming back it said
like big announcement in capital letters
of the thing like it's literally just
like hey this youtuber and they're the
Cavs right like you could make a similar
argument there about what's going on
there obviously they'd have a video come
out or whatever but like I I just feel
like they I was disappointed that their
announcement video was just
nadeshot being a youtuber I can I can
kind of understand the desire of coming
in as like
or authentically quote-unquote too like
this like you're seen because like if
neh shots your big brand he's the guy
you're bringing on to instantly have
fans you probably don't want to make him
do something that's not up his alley so
in that way I can kind of understand
being like yo your neisha you have a
huge following you know what your fans
like go announce that you're a part of
this thing however you think is best
well I think they could so I even if
they had just done and I want to get my
tastes thoughts on this too I don't want
you know all of us can end up talking
about this forever I'm sure but even if
they had just done like I'm okay with
them with Dane stop hitting that help
out his YouTube channel but I feel like
that shouldn't have been the only thing
that they did right like if you're gonna
criticize goal GSW for not doing
something cool with GG announcement like
I feel like you have to criticize the
Cavs for only doing less YouTube but
what do you think would take yeah that I
mean okay so gold and stay put out like
a 20-second after effects video of their
logo right I don't even consider whereas
like I feel like since obviously we're
like really into the scene we saw made
shots video but if you look at like
hundred thieves search Twitter and
particularly they didn't even like a
retweet the nadeshot video it feels like
to hurt me if I'm looking at them as
like a brand I feel like their first
video as a brand is just the prolly
video where he announces that he's the
coach and he's blowing the roster like
it I don't like I think Nate shots video
the way I look at it which was of course
personal it's just like that's his
YouTube channel video where he's
explaining what he's been doing for the
past six months to his fans and like
what he's trying to do with the team
like I don't really view it as like the
team's video yeah right I kind of
disagree just because it came out the
exact day that all this was announced it
was clearly kind of played in a moment
yeah yeah yeah this wasn't like hey you
know you can make this video to coincide
with our announcement this is like the
only thing that they put out that day
right probably the probably video I
guess sure yeah I would I would play the
nadeshot video on stream but after all
that night blue stuff I don't I don't
want to get caught up in the the team
either way Matea thanks for coming on
I want to turn through a couple
different people here but thank you for
that's a good point good criticism we
didn't maybe criticize Gigi as much as
we should possibly because I used to
work with the guy running it now so I'm
a little blindsided by that but either
way yeah thanks for the call
see you guys okay all right we're gonna
go get Steve liquid 1 1 2 Aaron set ok
the most for the fans man out there he
memes he goes on shitty talk shows when
all the other owners are too busy
running their company don't get a mark I
don't care go get him by the way thanks
to konso for the sub appreciate make it
sure that uh liquids got his stuff
together as he pull them into the chat
how you doing Kelby I'm doing great I
like talked to my boy Steve ok here we
go you guys ready yeah mm-hmm all right
we've got liquid one one sook on the
show liquid 1 2 where are you calling
from
and what do you want to talk about ok I
mean I'm down to answer whatever
questions you guys want to talk about
wait here suppose you're supposed to
bring a target yeah yeah what any
question okay well I should impact cost
is it true all right how did how did you
get him to turn down SKT that's the real
question you know yeah but okay yeah I
mean so so do you well let's let's talk
about maybe we'll ask general questions
because I'm sure yeah yeah go for it so
Steve how nervous were you or not
nervous were you going into the
application process do you think like
all the teams that I mentioned before
like see 90s MCG team liquid they're all
like yeah we got this we know what riot
wants or going in were you like oh shit
dude I don't know yeah I mean to be
super honest I was extremely nervous
because we had such a crap season in
2017 and I had thought that riot might
put an emphasis on recent performance
and everybody always remembers what the
last taste in their mouth was right yeah
that ends up being the opinion of the
the current moment and for me I was like
this is the most important moment in
eSports history and we just shit the bed
in the season so I took it extremely
seriously we as you know put like
together a pretty awesome application
and you know and I kind of went all out
I arranged all the proper financing so
that we could have the right kind of
resources going into 2018 yeah Travis
that you yeah I business it's all the
way up so we'll see if Mike if you heard
of Steve if you can be a little closer
to the mic that would be good too so
let's talk about yes that's much better
let's hear how is the roster stuff
coming along I know you probably can't
tell us who's on the roster or confirm
any of the rumors out there but how was
the process what's it like behind the
scenes was it hectic you know any of
that stuff that you can give us as an
update as we Gurley await the unveiling
of your your lineup
yeah well this offseason has been insane
I think more competitive than any other
offseason I've interacted with in the
last five years I think that was likely
due to the timing of all the new
organizations coming into LCS the
transfer window deadline and then free
agency happening kind of back to back to
back so it was extremely competitive and
it was actually surprising I I I won't
name any names but there were definitely
a few orgs that didn't know what the
fuck they were doing they're like still
trying to figure out how to hook up
Internet at their gaming house
you know there so it's interesting it's
just you know and I don't fault them for
that you know they're coming in or
they're still getting things ready and
there's gonna need some time to ramp up
but yeah I was across the board you know
it's it's been insanely competitive I've
been busting my ass on the phone for the
last month working everything out you
keep saying was which implies that like
the transfer sheet you know all that
stuff is done yeah like so sounds like
you've got you've you're feeling pretty
confident and what you've got going yeah
Travis and I put out two videos on
separate sides of the idea of salary
caps in the league and Travis was for
them I was for them but much more
hesitant in the sense of like I wanted
to wait a while before we started trying
to do that and then you supposedly
through you know rumors of course have
been acquiring a lot of players like far
more than you can obviously field and
some people are concerned that you know
you're gonna try and hoard a bunch of
contracts and then sell them off for
more I want to give you a chance to
potentially get ahead of that rumor or
maybe just say that's you think that's
the legitimate business strategy that
you're just implementing in the
ecosystem or something yeah well the two
parts of that so first the salary caps
and just my philosophy on that i well in
order for salary caps to even be
effective within the right new riot
structure there has to be cba there has
to be a player's association that is
funded by the players and not funded by
a third party and hopefully that happens
really soon and the players get their
shit together and decide to sell fund
this and you know combine their efforts
for a really healthy league on behalf of
the players interest but that's not
happening yet so the ability to
introduce salary caps is just impossible
can i interject really quick yep how
long do you think it'll be before that
happens a rough guess knowing talent in
this spaces you do not
trying to lead you on your answer but I
would like to hear your honest opinion
on it and do you think it's good or bad
if they do or don't I think if they do
it it's fucking amazing
because then we're one step closer to
being much more like other professional
sports and you can't implement a draft
system until this happens you can't
implement salary caps until this happens
so a lot of additional content that
would be really fucking awesome to see
is not possible because there's no
players association that's self-funded
so I'm all for it I I think it needs to
happen as far as like when it will
happen I think there just needs to be a
few players that really step up and just
say hey guys I'm gonna lead this I'm
gonna get this done take the initiative
and do it and hopefully you know I think
it'll be really dependent upon those
those individuals stepping up and
volunteering their time to get it done
so the second part of Mark's question
was basically like this new mean that's
Ponda that's like you have now acquired
half the LCS and so and so well I know
you can't talk about who you've acquired
and whatever but should like what would
you say to fans that are concerned that
you it just seems like team liquids like
going around and like purchasing
everything they can yeah I mean it
definitely seems that way right I think
part of it is just the timing of
everything we had to execute a deal at
the time of the transfer window and that
starts on a certain date which was the
17th I believe and then free agency
opens up on the 20th and that's when
player contracts also expire under TL
for some players so we actually have to
sign players prior to releasing players
and then as you would imagine we want to
sign certain players before we release
other players that are in similar
positions right we don't want to trade a
player before we have a
another player that we're happy working
with so because of those conditions in
this moment of time in this window it's
like you know I'm playing Pokemon but
[Laughter]
he's just so PR so PR answer so PR
answer linear like yeah but I'm
basically playing Pokemon right now yeah
but you know it for us what's with III
have always for the last five years
put player interests first and you know
any player that wants to explore playing
for another team if we've got another
starter you know I definitely won't be
working with them to make sure that that
happens so I mean having worked with you
obviously I know you're a great guy
you're not the kind of person who would
hold a contract hostage because some
other team is not paying you what you
think that player is exactly worth or
something like that but just generally
do you think this is a concerning
business practice that potentially
someone could sign you know three
players at every position or something
like that it's just something that
moving forward should be maybe have some
some rules against or anything or do you
think it's not really a big deal at all
no I think there should be some rules on
it to be a hundred percent honest
because if someone took an approach and
wasn't as like I guess ethically minded
or player first like I am yes they could
abuse the system and so there needs to
be a fix for that
yeah do you do you know what a manga is
great did you yeah we're you your acting
is really good there are definitely sub
parts of that video our Steve is acting
was convincing to you how I mean how did
that video come about because I actually
think it was one of the best
announcement videos that we saw on that
day even if it got taken down from write
it like 10 times yeah it actually never
made it on reddit but why get taken down
from reddit lamont it's not directly
related to the legends or something oh
my god
you know and I now talk anyone again but
if you wanna make edits because there's
no actually I messaged the mods and
tried to figure this out and they said
because there's memes in it oh it
wouldn't allow it
yeah low effort content producing an
entire video yeah you know lighting
multiple camera angles that's low effort
content right there so but what did you
how did you like what did you guys were
you trying to figure out what to do with
the amounts what video that you decided
to do a video where you're trying to
figure out how to do the announcement
video or what how did that come about
yeah so actually the man behind all of
this is actually Josh our head analyst
and he just came up with it pitched it
and and him and Damian ran with it
so he's got a new job well yeah I know
director of memes yeah do we have any
other questions for Steve about this
stuff I mean I don't I don't know how
much more we can ask him because I
assume he's not gonna be able to talk
about a lot of stuff but I have one more
sure Steve were there any surprises for
you in franchising for teams who got in
who didn't get in yes I would say that
immortals was was a surprise for me just
from the outside looking in without
knowing much of what was going on okay
do we want to ask twitch chat if they
have any questions for I don't know if
we want to ablate a whole which is just
gonna ask is double if joining Team
Liquid a bunch of time so I don't I
don't know how helpful but if Twitter
has any questions I'll peruse it and see
if one pops out Steve is there anything
you want to talk about about yeah yeah I
mean Travis I had a question for you I
just wanted to know is there a way to
sponsor the show Steve there are I don't
know if we're currently accepting team
sponsors because it's a bit of work
sounds like of interest but yeah team
liquid
hotline League brought to you by Steve
no that would be good but if anybody
does a lot of spots to the show they
could definitely hit me up on my website
eighty questions coming in from twitch
at mark that you want to bring I think
there's one that I probably know what
the answer is but someone asked when do
you think I know you can't get into
specifics but when do you
think you'll be able to begin revealing
roster information we will have a
announcement going live tomorrow ooh
that's much earlier than expecting
that's a nice exclusive for our show
yeah all right well that's it someone
clip it and put it put it on twitch tag
us so we could we could retweet that
that bomb
either way hey thanks for calling in
Steve it was nice to meet a big time I'm
sure it's been busy for you thank you
okay so you just dropped on us that the
in the roster announcements coming out
tomorrow yeah well he said oh yeah so I
have an announcement
oh yeah no yeah totally not the roster
announcement could be any announcer yeah
either way I let's see we have let's
take one more question about teams if
anybody in Twitter and sorry in the
discord chat wants a to Deanna and I'll
start moderating the or looking for some
specifically about new any LCS team well
he's doing that
Kelby what do you think of it's funny
I'm pretty sure it applies that the Team
Liquid roster is is pretty much done the
way he was talking about it man
this I I need some more time to think
about things that I can and cannot say
okay so you have some interesting
information I seems like yeah either way
I am I'm interested to see how the stuff
cuz I mean if I think I said this oh I
did a meet up yesterday before this
story I just want to highlight for
people who are in the discord and
posting questions are not good ways of
trying to get on the show if you say I
want to talk about what do you think fan
teams can do to like you're here to
bring your opinions to us and we can
discuss them it's much better that way
than you asking us a question hearing I
thought so what do you want to catch one
yeah yeah I was funny because I was in
Montreal yesterday and I didn't meet up
with the Montreal eSports group that's
up there and one of the questions was
like what do you think of like the Team
Liquid stuff and I was like well I don't
I you know it's it's hard for me to
speak too much about
think I may or may not know in fact I
started off the conversation by saying I
don't know if double lift is leaving TSM
or not or I'm not able to talk about
anything all right double is both of our
best friends
Ed's but I do think that I expect Steve
like knowing Steve the way I do like
this guy is tired of being the butt of
jokes and he has a lot of access to
resources and money that he can now
spend to help and accomplish this so and
I feel like anybody after that year is
gonna get the whole roster so I guess
I'm super fascinating to see the players
that he picks up yeah I have some I have
some philosophical stuff to talk about
when we get to the roster portion as it
relates to like all the rumors that
we've been hearing and yeah yeah so
we're gonna go into we've got one more
call mark is sorting that stuff out mark
is really I came in right now it looks
like we got low man on the show right
now a little bit hopefully I'm
pronouncing that where you coming from
as you're calling in I'm guessing
Chicago just outside
Valparaiso Indiana yeah nice wait is
that north or south or east or west of
Chicago would be south east yeah oh
Shelby's not elby's gonna ask your
street next the eg has a team house in
Bloomington so and that's like south and
Kelpie Kelpie by the way not a telepath
Loman has a Chicago Cubs icon as has
Dischord icon yeah that's why I know but
nobody else could see that calve a so
either like I've guess you've Chicago
yeah exactly
lovin reaching out to Loman love it what
do you want to talk about so a quick
rundown I've been a League fan since
about 2011 and more recently I've been
in the Cod scene and I worked for Cod
stats which is kind of like the hltv of
the cod scene okay and so I wanted to
give my opinion of nadeshot as a team
owner from the Cod scene and why I have
worries about it for League of Legends
okay hit us
so in the Cod scene
nadeshot developed a hundred thieves and
you know everyone was excited because
he'd finally branched away from optic
gaming and things were looking up he had
his big youtube well the big issue that
came out was that he mismanaged his
teams mostly through contracts he would
come up with these I'm gonna have this
great contract they'll be paid way
better than any other team and you know
we'll have this done in X amount of time
let's say six months or whatever it was
well time went on time went on he signed
these great players well they ended up
leaving because contracts fell through
and now obviously he doesn't he didn't
have the same capital investment from
like the Cavaliers that he does now but
it you have to remember that they're
still new to the whole eSports scene as
well so there's got to be worries
entering the league scene as well I mean
I would not worry so first off you know
I it's interesting I didn't know this
before so thanks for bringing it up I I
don't know you know the specifics of
what went down there from working with
big companies and just talking to two
other people that have worked with some
of these sports teams both on the league
side and on the overwatch side like
there are just armies of lawyers to make
sure that everything is fine so I would
never worry about the contract stuff
just because you know like they're going
to assuming and again we don't really
know how all the stuff is structured so
like how much 500 thieves a stage not
how much of it is the Cavs but assuming
that they're leaning heavily on the Cavs
as a resource like the Cavs are just
gonna show up with like their army of
lawyers with like all these contracts
and you know hopefully the players have
representation as well but I you know I
gotta imagine that stuff is gonna work
out so that's definitely I was gonna
kind of throw in there as well as I
think well neisha will have a big part
of like the business aspect I don't
think he'll have much to do like in
terms of how do we brand ourselves how
do you connect with gamers can you go
out there and promote some stuff and
he'll be like a big face for the team
I'm not
how much he'll have to do with the
actual day-to-day organization and
running of the League of Legends team I
would assume that would mostly fall to
prolly and maybe another GM and I doubt
nadeshot is gonna get bogged down in
contracts when there's many more capable
people in the scene of doing that work
for him so I think he will not
necessarily have his his hands too deep
in the actual like day-to-day League
team what do you think yeah I definitely
thought of that but I guess the main
reason why I wanted to address it was if
you head over to like the cod subreddit
the competitive side you see a lot of
lot of people talking about how oh I
can't believe you know nature I finally
made the LCS and he's super we're super
excited that he's there there's no way
he's gonna mess this up because of his
brand and I'm not talking hundred
thieves brand I'm talking the nadeshot
Branyan and I just I think they're a
little rose-tinted glasses saying like
how can a guy with you know three
millions youtube subs mess something up
like this and I'm I just wanted to be
like hey he's done it before
we're not saying that he would do it
again especially yeah with you know all
the lawyers and stuff involved now but
you know he's not a perfect person yeah
lomi can I ask you another question job
so I actually followed a hundred thieves
and caught a little bit when like he
moved into the Call of Duty space as far
as I was able to see like he picked up
this team when they first um like when
he first made a hundred thieves that was
like kind of controversial in regards to
the players on it they'd had some
success but then like his team didn't
really continue their success and they
just kind of dropped off and as you said
like their big the the players went away
because of the contracts and stuff but
like did you see him what were they
doing on the other side did they find
competitive results in like did you see
hunter thieves while they were in Call
of Duty producing content or doing
compelling things as an organization
like you saw when he was
a part of the optic brand or how like
essentially how good of a job did he do
aside from the contract thing in regards
to like developing a competitive roster
and creating narrative around the team
that he picked up when he moved into the
space that is like his home space right
I guess what I could say is he initially
the people he brought on he brought on
as content creators I believe Nick mercs
as a big streamer and some other people
which then as they generated some
revenue for him and for the brand he
then went out to get Cod players to be
on the team and and some of them were
big names and a lot of a lot of success
on other teams but yeah then they went
to their first tournament or first two
tournaments bad placings or didn't place
at all whatever it was and the team you
know started arguing quite a bit well
then it also comes out there he was
trying to hold the team together making
all these promises him being nadeshot
making all these promises saying like
hey you know if you guys just hold this
out we'll get better once the contracts
are finalized you know you'll have
sustained income and all this and he's
making all these promises to his players
and not a single one of them came true
so the team ended up disbanding very
quickly actually I think the team only
lasted for maybe a month or two
damn so but he still has the content
creator side going of a hundred thieves
they that's still like his big thing but
yeah the the team fell apart very
quickly hey lemon thank you for for
coming on talked about your concerns
with the Brant definitely an interesting
take that I don't think we'd heard
recently and it's good to hear from you
especially given your your knowledge of
the Cod scene so thanks or talk coming
on thank you for having me yeah thanks
to you alrighty so you know what that
means
Travis we're on to the the team portion
if I'm not mistaken yes so should we I
think it makes sense for all of us to
kind of to do a quick chat about so
our thoughts on the stuff do we need to
I think Kelvin you think you want to
talk about before we bring people on for
a roster rumors and stuff oh we don't
want to talk about roster stuff going on
before we do questions I thought yes had
something specific to say I don't I mean
like I can get into specific rumors but
I figure a lot of them will come up
naturally so tell me why don't you bring
up if you have anything well really
quickly yeah I I have one thing that is
like weird for me philosophically that I
wish players would do a better job on so
free agency period is starting like
right now essentially right or tomorrow
is it today or tomorrow it started early
today so and as as we heard from Steve
like he potentially or is doing his
roster announcement tomorrow and if he's
doing it that would lead me to believe
that probably like there are some other
teams doing it as well what I don't
understand is why players are going into
free agency and signing agreements like
day one it is not in your best interest
as talent to just not shop the market
you know what I mean I wish that we had
players who were more conscious of this
effect unlike especially if you are top
talent like I understand like maybe if
you are like not a star in the league
that if you have an offer that's super
compelling and you don't have a lot of
other interests then it might be
worthwhile for you to you know sign as
quickly as you can but if you're a star
player in the league and you have a lot
of leverage and you can do the whole
like you know talking to other players
seeing about where they're thinking and
stuff like it makes so much more sense
in my mind for you to hold out you know
not not even hold out but just like you
know have all the conversations possible
talk talk amongst other players and see
like what's going on in order to make
the most informed decision possible
prior to signing with an orc so it's
very interesting to me that like I feel
like we might see a lot
star talent on roster announcements in
the next 48 hours so along that line
what's happens in traditional sports is
actually on the first day a lot of the
max contracts get resolved right away
because what teams want to do is see if
they get their big fish and then they
can fill in with the rest of their
budget and things like that around that
player and if you don't get that guy
there's no point to signing the other
players so what often happens is there's
like this kind of domino effect in
traditional sports where until the big
movers are big players are taken
everyone else is kind of Mills around
yeah it's interesting in those because a
lot of those systems have salary caps so
like I can't give you a better offer
than the other guy necessarily like
there's obviously a lot of options and
different things that can go into a
contract but when you boil it down like
on a really basic level like I'm giving
you the max contract offer he's giving
you the max contract offer and here's
our plan here's our pitch and a lot of
times while there's a starter free
agency Peter where you're not supposed
to be communicating before that no one
listens to that fucking rule probably
isn't happen in eSports if I had to
imagine either like people were probably
moving on this stuff quite a bit before
the free agency period so in traditional
sports though can't agents talk about
stuff plans even when a player is under
contract isn't that their entire job
yeah but teams aren't supposed to meet
with players like bring the contract
until free agency starts so like sure
but an agent can have all the
conversations leading up to it and in
eSports you're right at this point now
yeah especially because of the lack of
agents players are not supposed to have
the conversation so like I understand
why in traditional sports on day one we
can see it because all those
conversations can already be hadn't have
been having had for months but in
eSports like we're so we're supposed to
be on like day 1 and 2 of conversations
being able to happen and things are like
already getting locked up obviously
owners are talking to each other and
like getting permission about transfer
agreements and stuff like that but still
it's just like I don't know yeah I think
it's because nobody's represented
nobody's agents so what happens is you
have you have a player and
an owner comes up to me like hey I hear
you're a free agent yeah and they have a
conversation he's like well I've got
this amazing roster I need a mid-laner
for it right now I will sign you here's
a big remember but if you if you don't
sign with me right now
like I might grab another bit later and
then you'll you'll lose out on all of it
and so I think there's just a lot of
pressure on these players now when
everybody has all these agents the
agents will get smart and they'll wheel
and deal or whatever but look the
problem I think is in talking to a lot
of players as the players don't know
like who to trust from an agency
perspective and like I have run their
shit
I don't think there really are that many
great agents no there aren't
so I also you know if you ask me like do
I think players are like competent
business people who are probably making
sure that they're like checking all
their boxes as they figure out what's
the best contract and I'm absolutely not
but no yeah yeah I think there's
definitely probably uh some problems
going on but I do think these players
have probably talked to other players at
their position how much are you getting
like they're definitely in communication
about stuff prior to this and you know I
I bet it is kind of like traditional
sports where it's kind of like what
sometimes happens is at midnight like
their agent will receive a fax they'll
sign it and it'll get taken care of and
like you know right away you hear about
some people going to their doorstep at
midnight a free agency to be like here's
your contract
yeah do you if I ask you good I'm I'm
curious are either of you guys talking
and comfortable talking about player
salaries like if some of you guys
already know player salary numbers and
we can't really talk about it but kelvis
like hiding a smile he's serving with
standard Kelby hide smile well here I'll
just put this out there if you guys want
to say no comment or whatever it's fine
but do you think that somebody in the na
LCS will make a million or more this
year so all I'll answer it in two parts
actually oh wait wait I'll let me get to
work I'll stall and hearing how much
some players got last year and knowing
that it was quite a bit above the the
average in the league do I think it's
gonna make the jump that it would need
to make to a million dollars this year I
think it's possible but I haven't
actually heard that yet
I think I have a feeling that if a
player got a straight-up salary for a
million dollars not through bonuses
necessarily or not through some of this
other stuff because that's something
that happens is um like a target hit of
1 million yes like one of the contracts
I think it was the supposed impact one I
was talking with somebody today I don't
remember about it but they were saying
that Jacob Wolff who broke the story
said that it wasn't salary of 750,000
that he heard it was like including
bonuses which I'm sure it's like make
worlds here's an extra two hundred
thousand dollars dude so I think
including the bonus structure maybe you
you hit a million dollars this year I
could see that but I feel like I would
hear because that's such a monumental
thing like we've broken seven figures
kind of a moment we're like we don't
even know I get they we don't know how
many contracts have already been signed
so I just I think at some point in time
during during this will hear of multiple
million dollar potential income for
these guys one thing we can say and
Travis that we've talked about and that
we know from you know why we obviously
know a lot of team owners right is that
I think there was an expectation or
maybe a hope a glimmer of hope
going into franchising that the
exponential growth we've seen in player
salaries since outside money got into
the space would like slow down when she
franchising came in and everybody's
locked in like okay we're here we can
shout a bit you know like there's not
going to be this like crazy demand you
know just throw money at players so that
we can have make the biggest impact
before franchising and boy were they
fucking wrong like player salaries have
just like gone I don't know clearly
Rufio you
in more bunkers dude and everybody's
like what the fuck this wasn't supposed
to happen you know like people I'm sure
that there are people coming in and they
were like doing you know outside teams
doing their models like ok so we did our
research riot we know that people are
getting this much now and you know we're
forecasting this and this and then just
like you're one out to get you're like
oh shit yeah it must be interesting I
mean it's a good point because it must
be interesting for these especially the
new teams like not just the the Golden
State Warriors and Cavs and Rockets but
even like msg who came in with CLG
earlier this year it must be interesting
for them because all these guys are in a
four castable environment normally
because there are salary caps so they
can now create a model and they know
like you know give or take ten or twenty
percent right like how much they're
gonna have to spend next year for their
whole thing here it's like they get in
and there's a chance that suddenly
they're a model it's like fifty percent
of what it should be yeah and they know
in traditional sports much better
forecasting for revenue because you have
it built out over like decades and
everybody's in a five-year ten-year
sponsorship yeah right and everybody's
coming in now and be like well we hope
that we can revolutionize what's going
on in sponsorships and we hope that riot
will you know break the mold for what's
going on and you know broadcasting
rights probably in broadcast revenue and
and rev-share through that so all I all
I will say is that like and I mean
Travis I've said this like a hundred
times but like we talked about a lot I
think that every org coming into LCS
from the outside needs to be ready to
burn cash for at least at least five
years significant piles of money
and if you don't have any of these guys
or do you think that these guys are
ready to lose money for five years I
been out if I was talking to an org and
I was talking to their VC and they were
like getting consulting based on what I
know about you know running teams where
sponsorships are at in the space the
trajector like I have pretty good
business acumen for what's going on in
eSports across all
and you know having run in LCS team yeah
I know
boo I'm just saying guys I'm just I'm
just saying you know like I have a
pretty good understanding of where
revenues and operational expenses are at
for teams across all different games and
like I think it's just if if I was
talking team I would be like yo man if
your expectations or anything else than
burning cash for five years and probably
losing losing seven figures for the
first like three you like this is not
what you want to be in man this is a
generational play like this is investing
to the understanding that down the road
this will be big enough that you know
like you can recoup some money but you
need to be in it for the long term dude
all right so did you answer though did
you make an educated guess or call on if
someone makes over a million this I
chose not to but I said that I thought
that we're breaking a million this
offseason blog right here last question
before we go into calls is this is it
bad that this is happening that player
salaries are going so high that we might
see players getting a million dollars
for one year's worth of playing this
year I think I think it depends what
happens next year because I think this
is kind of understandable with a bunch
of teams coming in you heard Steve
talking about some teams coming in and
not even knowing how to like get their
internet set up so I think there's a
sense of panic for some of these teams
they're like oh fuck we need a big name
now so I can see a world where some of
these guys are you know gonna overpay to
get low a b-tier Talent
potentially yeah and the question would
be as you move into year two is the
offseason this crazy where teams like
literally don't even know how to run
yeah and I would hope the answer is it
doesn't go up that much next year but I
mean I hope it goes down next year I
think that whether or not it's bad is
again completely dependent
and the people that are funding it and
what their expectations are uh like
ultimately there are people from either
riot side or the Oryx side who were
setting expectations for these guys
because they don't know what they're
getting into coming in the space and
they needed all this information fed to
them right and somebody sold each one of
these organizations on this vision dream
model right hopefully they've thought
that far people with this much money
usually do right so this X oh god I hope
so
as long as expectations are set properly
and accordingly and I know based
actually yeah I think that for some orgs
they have expectations set accordingly
right other ones I just have no idea and
as long as expectations are set well I
think that will be fine otherwise we
could see some people that are like damn
this is really different than when I
signed up for and they have signed up
for permanent franchising dude so that
could be a really awkward situation if
they were like expecting to like start
breakeven at year three and they're like
damn we're still what we're losing
we're losing robots we lose the multiple
people all right hang on hang on hang on
hang on let's do this and now I recall
you guys
one second everyone oh I've still
getting audio coming through all right
now it's better yeah I dropped the Skype
call and and I'm gonna call you guys
back yeah
make sure to meet your mics this is news
you said yeah all right all right mark
turn on this webcam and we'll be good
yeah there we go okay so sorry
Kelby you want to wrap up your no that's
that's all I'm saying it's happening
again what's that I think it's I think
it's discord actually I think it's Skype
here you know yeah now it's not liking
so Skype is somehow killing the discord
call I don't know how this court works
is actually that yeah this is
Microsoft's new plan Oh am i somehow
like hosting the discord on my computer
and like cuz I'm the only way to hung up
the call right cuz I still see ya
yeah it's discord writing on my computer
and like this channel I don't know
twitch chat what do you guys think yeah
everybody spamming net neutrality right
now and chat this is a perfect example
all right
go call your representative yeah this is
what your I don't know exactly but it
seems like it's working for now so why
don't we do you want to take like a
two-minute break before we move into the
yes yes I will we'll be right back
everyone before you guys go though we
have a TSM fan I believe in waiting so
we're gonna start off hot with the
juiciest all right
you
all right we're back hopefully the
technical issues have been resolved we
did some stuff behind the scenes it was
highly technical and highly complicated
I don't want to waste anyone's time but
we I don't know what Kelly was talking
about when I was starting to fall asleep
so I think we're just gonna go into some
traffic I think it wasn't just it wasn't
just Travis the internet was falling
asleep it's not broadcasting yeah it's
like Oh God kill everything to help us
up or check with this guy yeah so we've
got we've got a call coming in in just a
second
oh this mic still need it no it's fine
everybody twit twitch at losing their
minds we've got a TSM fan coming in just
a second we're gonna talk to them want
to get a shout out by the way to Volks
LOL who sup reset for two months already
tuned and hashtag paid by Steve Destler
for 147 resub for three months eight
thanks you guys for the best content
robot rest subbed and bow down to me
subbed as well thanks you guys for the
subs that stuff helps up for sure it
looks like Mark is still figuring out
stuff out so by the way I'm running a
patreon I don't have a sponsor this
job's not sponsored I'm not paid by
Steve Travis Khafre dot-com slash
support all the information about that
stuff over there and Ed were back mark
who did you bring in here we got you
can't control me and he's here to talk
about TSM hello you can't control me
where you called from I'm calling from
East Lansing Michigan
East Lansing Michigan okay and what do
you want to talk about with TSM uh the
roster moves book speculated roster
moves obviously okay and how that'll
work out so what what specifically or
what are your thoughts on on the rumors
so far well I was the first one I saw
was the acquisition of alleged
acquisition of a van and mithy because I
thought that was really interesting
because you saw them at like Worlds and
like they were kind of directly
competing with a double and bio whereas
now they're like potentially their
replacements yeah are you excited about
that acquisition
I'll be honest I'm like a big fan of
doublelift and bio frost so I feel like
you can't help but like think that
you're losing something there especially
since like at least domestically they've
been pretty damn good okay and so you
you would not be happy if that ends up
coming out true I mean I'm not a big
person who watches Europe because I is
already man I like obviously Savannah
and Miffy are kind of like doublelift
and bio frost within their own region
and they're pretty dominant there yeah
so it's kind of a hard judgement call to
make ups to whether they'll be better or
not but you feel like TSM's gonna lose a
little bit of its swagger and some of it
shotcalling
with uh they'll have to rework it an
entirely new dynamic with that
do you watch worlds yeah III understand
they sucked yeah as you say well what's
shotcalling
I saw a lot of uh standing around in
lane and hoping that the enemy team
would kill themselves do you yeah that
brings brings a question that you can't
control me like what would you as a TSM
fan like to see do you want to see
change you want them to keep the roster
like what would you have liked to see I
think it's the right move if you want
four worlds competitive success I'm just
saying with any change like this you're
introducing a chance that TSM doesn't
make finals or something like that like
there's a chance where you drop it
whereas if I think if you have if you're
running the same roster back they're
gonna suck and drop out in groups but
they're gonna make it two groups they're
gonna be pretty consistent yeah all
right so let me ask you this as a fan
would you be fine if they ran it back
yeah did all their stuff where they're
like we're gonna try our hardest at
Worlds this year and shit out in groups
would you be satisfied as a fan or would
you prefer taking the risk and having it
bomb
that's interesting uh I mean obviously
at that point it's like a little
hindsight II um no you can tell me right
now which you interfere no but I'm
saying like if you're telling me whether
I'd like them to bomb or not that's of
course gonna be the one you don't choose
but I'm saying like it
you'd obviously rather take the chance
because uh I don't know it'd just be
like something that would feel really
great there's a TSM fan here's a
question how many how many roster
changes would TSM need to make before
you are no longer a fan of the team or
are there any like I already some
curious about this with TSM fans like
you are a fan of TSM let's say they only
kept Sauron and changed everybody else
out would you continue to be a TSM fan I
mean I'm a fan of bjergsen so I can see
my like him being the only remaining
member and I'll still be a fan of them
what if there's no reason oh I mean then
what you're not even on TSM anymore yeah
I mean I just asked because there are
some sports fans that are like that
right like they if there are probably
some she has some fans that are like
that like you could change out the whole
roster of TSM and they will still refer
to you some because they are a fan of
TSM not even specifically the roster so
it's just an interesting question I
think well I think you go ahead no I'll
be like I'm kind of newer to watching an
ALCS s I started watching in a summer
split 2016 so like I've as long as I've
been watching even bio frost has been on
the roster right yeah I feel like
they're all kind of from my perspective
they're all like as far as I can tell
like TSM TSM yeah are you mark go ahead
so I was gonna kind of stick around the
the whole changing players thing because
I'm gonna give you my take a little bit
and you can tell me what your take is
this on who doesn't want the team to
change as much as I do because I take
the opinion that maybe seen this roster
twice at your worlds it has got out of
groups at a time
it looks particularly bad this time and
if your aspirations are to do well at
Worlds something needs to change and
everything is gonna come at a risk when
you're at the top of North America the
only place you can go in North America
is down and you won't know how if you're
going up at all until you know worlds
potentially so I understand there's a
large risk here but you got to change
something and as much as people want to
put a lot of it on parth I think it's a
little naive to assume so one who has
had the most domestic success in the
West is somehow gonna get you know so
the someone's gonna come in and get so
much more out of this team so I and even
maybe then people say will change the
jungler too and then you've changed a
fair amount of the team but I'm of the
opinion that I didn't think bio frost or
doublelift abs looked great at the past
two world so I'm fine with people them
making potentially a slight upgrade to
bring in a new team so what's what's
your perspective on something like that
I pretty much agree especially since the
interesting thing is if you're bringing
in Sven and mithya correct me if I'm
wrong but a fan is still European
European so they would have to change
him out you can't run all three of those
players yep correct so um you would then
be changing three out of the five
players in TSM and if we're being honest
probably three of the five more volatile
players that are like more like Bjork is
your rock and like hauntzer was popping
off on worlds and the other players were
kind of um more problematic or at least
had the potential to be yeah hey you
can't control me thank you so much for
calling in to the show really appreciate
your take on the TS it's always fun
talking to TSM fence gets twitch chat
going crazy hey can I offer my take on
this before we move on to the press so
it's kind of like this is going to seem
extremely divisive and it's not
something that I am a hundred percent
committed to as philosophy but it's kind
of just something that I've been
thinking about as it relates to the
potential of this roster change let's
further the purposes of this exercise
assume that
double and bio argon and spend and
mithya are coming in what is your
ultimate goal as an na LCS team
obviously results at worlds have been
very poor how far do you guys personally
think that an na team needs to go out
worlds in order for fans to be satisfied
is it just getting out of groups is it
getting to quarterfinals it's beginning
semifinals baby we gotta win no I want a
serious answer though for the purpose of
the exercise yeah where do you think
bands are you just need to show progress
like if somebody had like if all three
of our teams had gotten into quarters
and had a good showing that would have
been historic and people would have
cheered for them and if we had had a
team get two semis like that would have
been historic and people would have
cheered for na I think you just have to
show progress my opinion is it's kind of
contextual because if you end up in a
tough group you don't get out I love
people who say gee to edit disappointing
worlds necessarily I think that people
be much happier if they got out but I
think if it's a situation where a bunch
of North American teams get out of
worlds or if you're talking about a
specific team what counts as success I
would say beating teams that people
respect is is for me the most important
thing I'm not you know I got two semis I
don't give a fuck h2k you got two semi
yeah dodging grants yeah doing nothing
they beat a fucking wild-card team that
looked its way there alright so you've
got a beat or at least have a good
showing for a respectable team so I
would say if someone cut up a misfits
like performance and got knocked out in
quarters yeah I would count that as a
successful run to degree sure okay I
think that an na team in order to
actually have people care beyond like
the two-month window of Worlds having
success and it translating over is like
semis or maybe even finals and I uh by
feeling right now is based on the
historical results of na that that's not
happening I don't think that it's really
possible so understanding that I think
that what is most valuable potentially
for an na else and like again I'm not
married to this but
what is potentially most valuable to an
na LCS team is being the best in na and
then once you are there being as popular
as possible
Sven and mithi are obviously going to be
a massive popularity downgrade from
double and bio and what happens is if
you release double and bio you now have
to wall not at the world stage top
performers in na elite players that you
are introducing now into the competitive
scene against you on other teams and
bringing in Sven and mithi gives you two
good players obviously as well but
otherwise they're outside the market so
you are making potentially a lateral
move in regards to talent or maybe a
slight upgrade a significant downgrade
in regards to popularity and introducing
more competition into the space for your
competitors like mo for them to try and
take you out in that regard I'm I might
argue that this roster move is like
potentially foolish especially if they
do not show any greater performance at
Worlds or a significant upgrade then
you've just gotten a significantly less
popular team as like the reddit reaction
was across the board and what have you
done for your results like I I
appreciate the ambition of chasing the
dream of performing better at Worlds but
there's been nothing to indicate to me
at this point that it will happen for a
North American team yeah I can take that
perspective I wouldn't even say it's
necessarily wrong but I think if you're
looking at the competitive perspective
you can never accept that as as your
answer for sure yeah yeah and what I
will say just on the the popularity
angle everyone who joins TSM becomes a
rock star and if span is actually
fucking hilarious i I think spend super
funny like what I've seen of him and I
think the exposure that TSM does with
her content things like that will only
endear him to na more and people will
learn to love him maybe never as much as
potentially yeah and have never as much
as double those two so iconic but I
think people will like Han sir was a
fucking nobody and now he's one of the
most
popular players because he's funny well
well I mean is Annie's got a sick body
let's say that's probably most important
let's move on to the next caller if you
want to bring them up mark yep all right
it looks like we got AJ on the line AJ
where you calling from
hey I'm calling from British Columbia
Canada Hey Canadian alright anybody but
you're not American then so why do you
what care about North I'm kidding
Canada no way what's way great to work
AJ were you anywhere near Vancouver they
cost about an hour out nice okay love
that city all right so what do you got
what do you want to talk to us about I
was just looking at the new rumors
regarding CLG recently and I I noticed
that one of the big ones is that are
from who hasn't signed yet and so as a
seal chief in I feel like alpha movies
like a really big core player CLG and so
and cuz he does like a lot of
shotcalling and he's a leader in other
ways as well
so I kind of fear that like if he leaves
even though he's only one player as
opposed to like to summer you got a lot
of players even if just afro leaves that
might act on the leadership of the team
I mean is it who they replace them with
right us but I just feel like there
aren't a lot of options that are like
as good at leadership and I was like
well known and that regard is our fro
there might be some I guess but yeah I
don't know I means you but that makes
the question like do you think that afro
is irreplaceable for CLG like is is he
can seal G not stand with or cannot
succeed without aphromoo you could
probably succeed I don't think it's like
impossible but I at the very least I
think there should be a lot of growing
pains to get used to you know not having
your main shot-caller like in all these
guys I guess except for Omar who's
pretty new the rest of them are really
used to afro you know shot calling them
and sort of being a leader though
they're at the very least I would think
in the beginning that have a lot of
growing pains but I do think
it's possible that they could still
succeed you'll become you know finals
team and get kind of thing but yeah
there be some growing pains for sure
yeah he'll be you you managed well mark
if you got something but I also you know
Kelly managed after me so I'm curious if
you have any thoughts on this ah I think
that it was really bad when CLG loft
lost doublelift and I think that losing
aphromoo would be another bad change in
direction for the organization I mean
CLG cut doublelift because well I mean
it's public information now right yeah
that afro went to CLG and said like it's
a me or him situation yeah it's faith a
double if documentary producer
sometimes sometimes you forget about you
know what's what's out there and what's
not right um but yeah I it's real rough
man like I think that I also don't know
what that botlane dynamic is like
because bot lane is the one position or
one area of the map where you don't
necessarily have a hundred percent
understanding if the success of that
lane is because of two individual
players talents or because one person is
helping leave the other like remember
when we had Peter our double and yellow
star on the same team - like really
awesome players but like they just did
not work together and I know at the
beginning of Peters career like without
chowster teaching him how to play the
game Peter does not develop into the ad
carry that he does today probably the
same thing with bio frost on the come-up
with peter so like his stick say in a
position where he can exist in a lane in
it be as successful and brilliant at
times as he's seen seemed without a fro
in the lane i don't know cuz you know i
don't coach the team but that's
something that's you know would be very
interesting to me aside from the fact
that yes once Peter left afro Stu
stepped into the emotional leadership
role for the team has seemed to do a
very good job of that is obviously a
great player the most popular player on
Co
gee and potentially like the lane leader
for bought like I'm sure he'll choose
doing everything in their powers to keep
him us and we have no idea whether or
not he'll actually you know be leaving
the team or not but yeah it would seem
like probably the biggest loss that CLG
could suffer in the offseason across the
board
my thoughts are two things one like I've
talked to a lot of players and I think
he is the most desired player to play
with bye bye bye people damn I think the
Eriksen might be higher but I think like
when you when you took him out I think I
think afro was the one that people want
to play with the most after that I think
I was up there pretty high - there's a
thing and I think that speaks to how
much market value he has is just like a
lot of people want to play with them and
I don't think that there's a real way
that you get this like a substitute
that's gonna step in and fill his shoes
like your team just has to fundamentally
change when he leaves they do have
darshan who's very vocal though it's
super hard to shock all from top lane
mm-hmm and I mean you can always have
other people talk on the team that will
see who he seems very very smart so I
mean he's pretty fluent in English so
I'm sure you could do it but but yeah
after Oh such a big voice that you don't
you don't just replace somebody like
that yeah when I last aged AJ before I
kick him out yeah you know based off who
might be out of the team right now
through the rumors you have potentially
bio frost yes potentially maybe tiel's
Matt if afro is going there as well
basically anybody let's say afro takes
their job is there is there another
support in the league that you would
feel comfortable with taking over for
afro move is there some guy that you
would want if afro is just totally off
the board I don't feel like anyone can
really fully replace what he brings but
just based on gameplay if Olli is
available I think it would be a good
option probably just because he's
obviously like amazing last season
people waste a shot calling in the same
way he might I mean he had made some
good shot calling but his loss us but
but I would probably go with LA as my
top but maybe borrow Frost isn't
like one two yeah thanks AJ so much for
the call appreciate it and good to talk
to you about CLG hopefully you can stay
warm in British Columbia you bad yep
thanks seed thanks
all right so mark if you want to oh
we've got somebody right now
so mr. Brightside which is a killer song
has joined us we're about she calling us
from Australia Australia oh hey perfect
yeah yeah all right so ask me something
I seen twitch chat saying I disappeared
I think I think they were just noticing
that you were talking to somebody else
in the other chat because the people
could stop him yes mr. Brightside what
time is it in Australia right now it's
seven o'clock at night seven o'clock at
night okay so not too too bad what do
you what do you want to talk about I
wanted to talk about the AK was player a
contract acquisition from immortals to
liquid okay the rumored one we should
say yeah yeah everybody was not willing
to give us seven yes I just want to
touch on life I wanted to obviously get
your guys input and talk about who I
thought would be worth keeping from that
yeah from the rumored yeah this is the
ideas they they picked up all the
players that immortal still had under
contract which the the big three people
would know are what Exmouth the pobelter
and parity Sun yeah and then they had
two other folks as well on the bunch
what yeah I mean to you what you ever
thought bright side yeah I mean well
personally I thought out of the the
three I thought Peralta was the most
like interesting would be the best pick
up I mean obviously it's kinda it's hard
to say exactly like how good he could be
with Mickey still having not been seen
much yeah and the other one well I
thought was uh xmithie as well yes which
is more of a bigger discussion really
because of like that he's like this six
jungler that lik would have now yeah on
their list that was because I mean it
was bit hard and they I want it's going
to best at once so I thought best of
threes if they had xmithie I'm like Dada
for example that would be ridiculously
good yeah I mean who what do you guys
what do you guys think about his
question you know who do you think you
would want to keep around and also do
you keep some of these players and put
them on your Academy team because
remember these guys have to field
Academy team style mark marette he'll be
yeah I think it's hard to probably
convince Kody to play on an Academy team
because you know if we're taking Steve
at his word that he wouldn't you know
hold anyone hostage or anything like
that he's willing to move that player I
think a you would expect Kody to end up
on a team doing not on an academy team
and I do think Kody is potentially worth
keeping if the double if thing is 100%
Team Liquid then yeah I think you take
double left over Kody but especially
given that you're not getting away with
him and you don't know how much of that
Lane was Olli I think it was a big
question mark with with Kody playing
without his one lane mate that we've
seen in the LCS yeah yeah I mean I think
it would be really interesting if people
might not remember this but if you think
about it if they keep X mithy and Poe
Beltre in this scenario and the rumor
about double if just true that those
were three guys at plating that yeah
that's the majority of the 2015 CLG team
that beat TSM and did all the stuff
right before double if left so and
whoever moves at the same time yeah so
it'd be interesting to see
if that's like a good thing if there's a
lot of strength there or what happens
so he'll be every thoughts yeah I think
that it'll be really valuable for teams
to hold on to as many strong players as
possible for a good Academy team I think
that something that we really haven't
seen explored yet in LCS is the value of
having like essentially a second roster
- especially if they're stronger players
learn and practice twice as much stuff
right and potentially be like a tester
team for you in specific like we want to
play against this thing or practice
against this strategy you know and it's
the stronger your academy team gets then
the the better of a simulation in like
better research you can get from them so
if you're able to keep top talent around
for this team and have them be an even
better sister team for the org I think
it'll be really valuable for the orgs
who actually don't just think only about
how are they going to build out there
starting roster but what is the Academy
team look like and how are we using them
in developing the overall strength of
you know the starting five mr.
Brightside any any final thoughts on the
IMT thing otherwise I just want to ask
you a question about Australia oh yeah I
guess yeah I just wanted to put that out
there and so you guys throw really
thanks do you watch any of the Oceania
and League of Legends eSports haha nah
no I don't ok so just do you watch it
you think we're saying LCS yeah I watch
pretty much I watched on the minute a
year long you watch EU over Oceania
that's right yeah okay that's right oh
she ever have a chance do you think I
want to believe okay
did you care about tainted Minds at all
I did I thought I was yeah that was bad
yeah yeah that didn't help and anything
about the hey thank you so much for
coming on and great to hear from from
Australia have a good
- your day alright thanks guys yeah
thanks thanks man
all right so I was thinking mark maybe
we do two more questions about the team
stuff and then we do - just open air
whatever questions anybody who wants
talk about when we maybe ref the show
all right we'll see how many other
questions people have sure before I'll
get a little bit of a leading question
here then if somebody wants to talk
about something that's not TLC RG or TSM
from here on out I'd love to hear about
you know the supposes Apollo Lehrer
hockey HOH potentially someday as well
team that you hear getting kicked around
maybe maybe some other of those those
rumors
maybe Ryu potentially meeting back up
with probably any of these other ideas I
would love to get off on some of these
other new teams potentially so do we got
another caller yes we do and it's a
returning call or Travis oh yeah it
should eat you Greg come on
iver ever having a hard time pronouncing
your name welcome back to the show he's
a so yeah you know yes of course I know
all my subs live their names their
birthdays their the name of their
children so where can you remind me
again where you're calling from I'm in
Portland he was somehow Portlandia is
like exactly what Portland is yes of
course I remember this word please let
him answer the questions I'm sorry all
right so from Portland what do you want
to talk about I kind of want to talk
about how a lot of people on reddit
after the rumors of Mike young being the
new TSM jungler a lot of them were like
huh unread 't how a lot of people were
talking about how mike young would be
the new TSN jungler I was looking for a
mic you like yeah yeah how everybody was
like hyping up and how it would be like
a big saving grace for the roster and I
don't really agree with that I don't
think that Mike Young doesn't really
solve a lot of their problems like Mike
young while he did have like a lot of
star player moments it didn't really
seem like it would solve some of the
problems that TSM had and like things
like what I noticed that world just like
it seems like they lacked what a lot of
the best games have which is like
a killer instinct you know like I felt
like they were all just playing super
scared all the time and they don't
really know how to do something
proactively and I feel like from what
I've seen from Mike young like any
little bits of audio that we can get
from the calms of their games energies
and stuff he seems like a really passive
person I don't know how he like actually
talks in the game but just from
personality-wise he doesn't really seem
like he would solve anything with that
yeah so I don't really think he would
like be a saving grace for the team I do
think he's a really good like
up-and-coming player and I think that a
lot of the blame towards fen wasn't
really justified and a lot of it
what reasons why he might look bad as
like team stuff twitch China's taking
issue with York you're saying that
reddit said this people are saying right
it feels like he's overrated but you saw
this legal intercept I don't remember
where but I can't remem force on TSM
servers are legends by the way just a
quick pause the mark Z just subscribed
to my channel so thank you know because
zix gifted him of $4.99 so long Tony in
the chat mark sub it to my channel mark
thank you I want you to enjoy the stuff
it's the greatest gift by the way so I'm
sorry to cut you off each of you come on
but if you know the holidays are here
you want to get a great gift all right
you're a a sub to my channel it's just
one of the greatest gifts you could get
and by the way you you want to make sure
that your your friends really understand
how much you appreciate them go for the
$24.99 okay you know you know the $4.99
it was great disease did that for work
but like if you could afford it go for
the 24 night because that's really good
to show them how much you care I was
trying to do is to buy his way onto the
show
so if Tony wants to come on towards the
to get back to your point though I think
that you you brought up one thing that
is really interesting so in my personal
talks with doublelift after worlds this
time around one of the things that he
brought up specifically is that he one
of the
big points of disparity between
performance of na and EU teams on the
world stage is this ability to play like
you're not scared
EU teams are much better for whatever
reason at getting out on stage and just
playing like no fucks right like yeah
and you have to have that killer
instinct it's really important the ones
and we see it all the time in League of
Legends it's so much more common to see
the people who are proactive on the map
the ones who are making plays forcing
issues are the guys who take advantages
are able to snowball and win games
especially at the highest level people
who are playing defensive and like I'm
not the League expert that I used to be
but uh because I don't watch this movie
shut the fuck up Travis alright I had a
very good understanding of the game at
one day that's almost got relegated yeah
I'm not on stage dude I didn't have the
mechanics but the mind the mind was
there I was kidding um but uh ya know
it's like you see so many even top teams
just like slowly bleed out and it's
really hard to come back so I think that
yeah you're right the having the killer
instinct especially on the big stage is
what's really important and we haven't
seen I'm not saying Mike young this and
have it but I think that you're
absolutely right finding that ingredient
when it matters it's what's going to
push Na forward on the world stage if if
you got Sven and mithi supposedly taking
up your your import slots like you need
a stick juggler yeah xmithie you try to
get Steve to to bring you bring him over
I mean your options are somewhat limited
to some of these new rookies well if
you're coming if you're committing to
Sven and mithi yeah but it's not if
you're keeping na players like what if
you did what if you did doublelift and
Olli you know what I mean and then you
can use your I don't know import slot on
a jungler if you wanted I'm not saying
it's the right play it's just a
different philosophy right sorry you're
going to say something and maybe they
are doing that we don't know who knows
what will come
yes I'm probably just really wanted to
get rid of the bot lane as a whole not
necessarily
is there that or anything it just seems
like they wanted like a bigger change
and doing in the bot lane would be the
change because two years in a row the
same roster he went to worlds and like
despite how like how much you can
compare kinda mithi to doublelift and
bio for us like there was the ending
result in the fact of the matter is that
the roster went two worlds two times
both times they failed so it's kind of
ignorant to like not make a pretty
substantial change so I I think that
changing is venomoth so point about Mike
Young is having talked to a lot of
players about him they feel like he is a
little cheesy in a sense where he goes
for like a lot of high-risk high-reward
stuff yeah and I think that is both good
and bad and how TSM used to operate
before maybe they were a little bit too
much on the we don't like high-risk
high-reward they they often played like
to low risk low rewards they ended up
with no rewards it felt like and come in
like against good teams who could who
could match them and I think Mike Young
like you're saying Kelly you can kind of
fill that void potentially while
hopefully getting coached some of the
bad habits out of him so I can see a
world where Mike Young works out but I
also agree that I don't think he's gonna
come in and be this superstar right away
but I do think his style does work
really well with with strong laners
because if you're gonna go apeshit at
someone's jungle having people who are
kind of winning on their own emphasized
that play style so I could see this
working out pretty well
regionally as well potentially yeah yeah
I agree the other thing about like
having like bringing on a really
aggressive junglers just like something
that like I think about when that
happens specifically with TSM is just
like how Spence Karen was like Tara is
like a really good aggressive jungler
who that counter-jungle you go in your
jungle and fuck you up and then it
seemed like over the course of TSM he
just turned into like a ward bot
basically and some people I'm not really
sure how I feel if this would happen
with my killing but also belief that
like the same thing could happen with
Mike Young you know because it seems
like they have a history of turning
their junglers and award laws mm-hmm
it's like what do you guys think about
that I mean it's not impossible I've
seen it happen on teams in the past
where players have unique play styles
coming in and then a team's culture can
dictate their play style to them and you
change the player and especially like
every player in league like has a
natural instinct like Aven they have a
natural style right and some are better
adapting than others but I personally
believe that the chemistry of rosters
and success that you find is being able
to find players who Naturals PI Styles
will eventually work together and that's
where we find the best best squads you
know hey thanks for coming on H II
really appreciate it good to talk to you
again
enjoy portland's and thanks for being so
yes yes see see dude all right well
Kelly I think these things are going
along pretty well by the way I wanted to
do a couple shout outs so again thanks
to six law dark defender subs and Boba
colas briefs up for four months boba
call it with the four months up thank
you very much we are continuing our
talking beers calling in we have sorry
oh we got mark back and we've got
somebody here today yeah what no one
mentioned that my microphone is on my my
it's on my laptop okay that's why my
typings been so loud is this all for
show yeah okay there we go
Jonas where he called from I'm from Long
Island New York
nice well thanks for watching I know
it's late there so I appreciate you
staying up to watch yeah yeah so I just
wanted to talk about echo fox actually
how recently well optic so got akkadian
well at least that's what's rumored to
be happening an echo fox as a whole
because a lot of people are thinking
like a pro could go to echo fox and you
know should keith's and all this other
stuff you know should they build around
froggen and i just want to discuss it
yeah what do you yeah well in my opinion
I think froggen is a good base you know
he's always been a well performing mid
laner he's someone who always puts out
good numbers stats wise it's just like
the whole shotcalling thing hasn't
always been his best aspect so maybe
some bringing in someone like aphromoo
really good for a team
love not listen I just well kind of love
this I love this topic because Kelby was
just doing a great job talking about
people's natural playstyles mmm-hmm
and I think froggen is someone who has
an extremely risk-averse natural play
style and from what we've heard about
him over the years is someone who is a
fairly strong headed about how he wants
to play the game and I think that's how
you end up in these situations where
someone gets molded into a player they
don't really want to be and suddenly
they seem bad and so my question to you
Jonas as you say
froggen is this great player to play
around but he hasn't been on a
successful team in years despite a lot
of moving parts around him so do you
really believe that he is a superstar
and is this a guy that like if you're a
big fan of echo fox you want to keep
moving forward this guy I think no doubt
in my mind he's one of the most talented
players to ever play the game but it's
the question of is he the guy that you
build a whole team around well I think
ever since Alliance yeah he's had a
rough time but the reason like echo fox
keeps him is like this guy like you know
he if you look at the stats he's never
like less than top for stats wives of
course like you can always make the
argument that like it's who he's ahead
of him because just of what who he can
bring in comparison to far games but I
think if you give froggen someone who
can have a voice and kind of lead him to
like tell me what to do with his ease
because he's always this guy he's
getting huge leads in Lane but he can't
ever like put it across the map if you
know what I mean so I think yeah I think
building around him as long as you get
someone else who can Chaco is a great
idea at least that's why yeah I think
afro and him but heads at all I mean
we've heard a Froude doesn't necessarily
like working with strong-willed players
potentially with doublelift I'm not
saying you know frogging zonda
doublelift level when w was back in the
day and it was apparently not the nicest
man to play with but I would you do you
think would you be optimistic about afro
and him working out yeah I think so but
the thing is like in that that idea that
there needs to be a shot-caller I don't
know who else is a free agent it's
really that big of a shocker who hasn't
already been well
code taken like double ifs supposedly
already on Team Liquid I don't know who
else would really how would you feel
about Olli he's a pretty aggressive guy
gets on the map I think he could
potentially synergize with some of a
setting I'm off setting frogman's
weaknesses yeah Olli it would be good
but is he he would be Korean because
they already have looper and frog again
because I think loopers actually a
strong player just again there's like no
base that they were really working off
of high returns to support its froggen
not resident status now dos been so long
I don't know I don't think him now he
was joined a little too late gotcha i I
think that you guys are right I think it
if this thing were to happen like
hypothetically that it would be
incredibly dependent on how froggen and
afro synergize from when I knew Zack on
the error sorry when I from when I knew
Afro on the team like he was the kind of
leader where I think he was only able to
step into that role once Peter left the
team because yeah he like he needs to be
the strongest willed personality on the
team to be the leader and but he's not
like super vocal when those other
strong-willed personalities around him
he's not super like naturally vocal
himself afro is like a pretty chill like
passive dude
froggen is like an anomaly or like a
weird enigma to me now because the
froggen that i knew when he was on CLG
you like I I agree with you mark like
he's got to be one of the most talented
people to ever play the game especially
from the West and on the international
stage he has had incredible results when
he was getting there like he plays
really well on the big stage but the
froggen I knew like would never settle
for not having a roster that wasn't just
like knocking down the door of being
best in the region every year and that
clearly doesn't seem to be the point now
I don't know what frog ins motivations
are anymore and like if everything is
the same that it used to be and I think
that in order to be at the top of your
game you need to be like a hundred
percent in on what you're doing and like
he's just so naturally talented he'll
he'll always be yeah like in the top
four but maybe like the Afro injection
if they get like a strong roster around
him would like you know kind of and I'm
not saying that froggen is invigorated
right now it just doesn't strike me as
like I don't know he's at where he could
be yeah I think I think it's I mean you
don't have to even fire shots at
frogging to make this claim but like
when he was on CLG EU and he was
streaming he had that that like
week-long period I think it was even in
North America where he played the game
for like yes like 60 straight hours in
three days yeah yeah it was fucking
insane and like he's obviously a much
more balanced person now but the reality
is is that like when you put in that
level of work while it has diminishing
returns you're still getting returns and
that's kind of the Korean mentality and
he he had that mentality in the past and
it doesn't feel like it's there anymore
yeah hey thanks are calling in I really
appreciate you Jonas get great great
question good good talk thank you for
having yeah all right so we've got a
couple questions I don't think are we
don't talk about team stuff I think I
know Marcus which the other channel is
figuring stuff out but we might maybe
one more our team question will see as
it is getting kind of late in the shows
been going for a while but there's so
much to talk about here on hot line
League just trying to see if we got any
shout outs that I need to be making
during the break while we wait for those
colors show up and are we doing general
questions now I think I think we might
be moving on to general questions I'm
not sure well I thought every comes back
the last thing I would say about team
stuff is like I'm gonna be interested to
see who's gonna take the first like real
bet on a roster with franchising now
that you like don't have to worry about
relegations and try and develop you know
some some some young talent some unknown
talent maybe around veteran players yeah
I hope I hope we get to see that I would
be interested to see that yeah it's just
hard to get veteran players I think -
sorry if I make sure you got to have
people buy-in sorry mark nothing sorry I
yeah yeah the question about sorry or we
have we switched to general questions
yeah that's cool I was I was thinking
we're moving to yes we use about yep
okay sounds good ready
hello one suck like you've got somebody
in the background but that's okay what
what do you have you guys oh it's okay
you meet us where you come from Alabama
Alabama or an Alabama I don't know if I
want to say there might be that one
person okay okay
somewhere Alabama fair enough and what
you love okay so basically I kind of
want to talk about how in a is not gonna
change that much right with franchising
okay and so basically long story short
is I think that the top four teams you
know the big four are going to win
everything because teams still do not
know how to build rosters and it
confuses me so much how teams can't
figure out how to build a roster well
who's the big four TSM c9 CLG liquid
okay so if liquid starts winning stuff
they're you're grouping them in there
that's a big change right well right
from last year I think we just kind of
had some mean yeah screw up because they
don't have it but they did not have
build a roster yeah now they're just
like flawlessly making they're just
buying everybody so they can't fail yeah
okay so here's my thing okay so I think
in a essentially with every team that
they bring international always has a
glaring flaw right like TSM had the
worst early game in the tournament c9
didn't make plays and then mortals had
Cody Sun you can go through this and
track it and so I kind of feel like a
bunch of these teams are gonna come in
but they're gonna do a horrible job
building rosters right like echo fox had
froggen and looper pretty good and
akkadian but then they have Keith and
just fuck up the entire bottom and write
like yeah you you you throw
way your boss side of your map he can I
mean you can't blame them for the key
thing like he had looked your honor when
Keith first debuted all right he took he
took off piglet who couldn't speak a
word of English and then all of a sudden
and piglet starts picking his shit back
up together he tried to replace
wildturtle and then really couldn't even
do that and turtles kind of ass in lane
if we're being real you're very radical
of ad carries over yeah I love this guy
I would rather everyone who comes on
this show has a strong opinion yeah well
like look none okay but here's the thing
like okay so the reason why I don't
think na is gonna change too much is I'm
also I think the last guy who had on the
mic yeah was a pretty good point right
like I don't think Mike is gonna change
I don't how is it rookie gonna handle
like three dominant veteran lanes he's
gonna get bossed around he's not gonna
come in bring his own idea I was on the
TSM team Lehrer okay see now I'm losing
impact
so when impact was playing good he's
gonna be great and then CLG they won't
get rid of who he so it's just gonna be
a thing and so I'm just predicting that
like ena is gonna be the exact same
thing again probably TSM win may be
liquid can do it and so that's just sort
of my like general thoughts of like well
I think the wrong how I think you know
he's gonna be one suck there's no way it
could be the same because last year we
saw a tremendous performances from
immortals and we will not be saying we
won't be saying that
you
for me like I understand that you can't
like there's only so much in a talent
and I get that right like I get that
like you can only have like like I think
double lift is by far top three like
most viable players just because he's an
na ad carry right like I think the only
reason pobelter is like so great is just
because he can you can put it in a spot
beside his name he's yeah name it but
like other than that you're not bringing
pobelter like he he could have shined in
that group and it was so bad like his
group was so weak in mid lane at Worlds
well you can't I don't think you can
talk about na at worlds at all because
RNA players all look like shit when you
go to Worlds right okay okay okay fine
that's sort of my general kind of
discussion is like I feel like not a lot
is going to change so so what do they
need to do different I want to know yeah
you're talking about building teams you
said that none of these orgs know how to
build a team and it frustrates they're
dumb so I want to know what you think
people know gate okay here's there's two
sides of that one I think on content
creation okay I think works suck on that
I know I'm kind of going off like
seriously if you're not regularly on the
front page of Reddit like the fact that
someone like Thorin and Travis granite
they've built up brands on front page of
Reddit more than some of these orgs
bothers me it doesn't bother me okay
what are you trying to say about content
creators one suck I get that you guys
are making money but like oh I'm not
making money I don't know you know that
might buy me a make no listen you have a
all the way up until you stars how about
me a bark all right like that's like in
short I think randomly I keep going
off-topic but like I think the problem
with Europe is they are pretty
seeing no content except for like
pathetic okay I think of being within a
orgs they're all kind of like doing this
wannabe TSM thing where they're like
trying to say oh yeah we're super
serious about winning I'm like dude why
you're not like just have some sense of
identity so one I think work should do
that actually sell me something so what
what do you think is bad about the
content that they're doing right now and
what do you want to so you're saying
they don't have identity what do you see
them do like different like the trihard
team right like that's what Reggie sells
to his team he's like says we want to
win worlds right that's an identity
liquid like they're kind of a meanie
team like I don't know like what is the
ID like CLG had kind of that like you
know Captain Planet like friendship
unites we can conquer anything kind of
feel to it like half a you know like
there with something so much of this is
contingent I'm like what your team's
able to do best fully like people gave a
fuck about CLG being the friendship team
is that they were winning and Fox hasn't
made big roster moves they're also the
friendship team and this is like and
people people don't don't love them for
that in suit well Rick Fox here's the he
doesn't like Fox but what I'm saying is
is that like you have no identity like
seriously like can you give me like
could any of you guys sum up in a
sentence like what is the identity of
let's say echo fox or what the identity
of like a team like I don't know who was
a team in the league last year or in V
or fly quest I know they didn't make it
but like they offered you nothing yeah I
think if you look at I think if you look
at the way I think teams have been
either they've decided start doing this
or right is pushing them in this
direction because if you look at the
announcements that they came out with
you know like if like West is trying to
brand themselves as like a very player
focused organization and we're
yes you need something for parents to
actually buy into you just need some
identity and TSM like to their credit
right no matter how ridiculous it is in
a man times they fail it is fair that
they have something that they can sell
so you that's what they're trying and
then sorry second part like as far as
the competition goes I mean you know I
don't think I offer anything super that
you know reddit hasn't already offered I
mean I just think that every NA or has
had a red flag that people like and when
you guys did your show right like marks
and the right
Kelsey Moser and everybody were like hey
c9 doesn't do anything for the first 15
minutes and then like what happens to
them right you mean you're like looking
at TSM they don't do anything like I
just feel like as far as competitively
like I don't under I guess I just don't
understand and maybe mark since you've
coached you can kind of actually talk to
me a little bit this like why is it so
hard to fix something that the obvious
reddit analysts you look at and see well
because you're trying to break habits
and mentality like you know right like
if I told you that you should learn
rocket science like just as you
understand that I need to learn rocket
science through my job doesn't mean
you're gonna pick up and learn from
right that's in second just on the c9
point they did they have one of the most
active early games at Worlds they change
it either way either way once like I
want to thank you for calling in we have
to move on this color because right no
no it's good it's good I like all your
points in there yeah that's good have
any on thanks man you does suck at
content that is for sure thank you and a
farm system we love anyways before we
move on I have a bit of a bone to pick
with that whole topic so we let him talk
me okay you go you go real quick mark
yeah in sports your your identity is for
the most part trying to win like what
Envy built their roster to be
competitive it didn't work out like oh
they should they should have had an
identity of memeing and not giving a
fuck like Oh
he just me look what I do like if you
look at the new team announcements I do
think it's fair to say that it's good
when teams say like this is what we
stand for it right like clutches saying
we're about data and analytics and
that's what makes us good green wall is
like optics thing they're like all about
like this massive fan push I think
that's fine I think that's what he was
getting at
yeah like here's the thing when you tell
me that clutch city gaming is all about
data what how do you expect that to
manifest itself to his fans perspective
do you think they're gonna get out there
and start pushing content where they're
just talking numbers to you and I'd love
to talk to you for 10 minutes about this
but we don't have time we got to get
through these four people about Dignitas
so mark Dana toss aside entity is dead
org that's that's very clear now yeah
all right I expected we got four more
colors they are already queued up we're
gonna churn through these guys really
quick and then we're gonna wrap the show
thanks everyone this is an extended
version of hot line League I can't
believe I'm awake I flew from Montreal
at 4:00 a.m. yeah it's great for keeping
you awake Travis they're not a sponsor
of my show all right get that shit out
of here you know we say he said he did
he roasts me while I wasn't here hey D
gone this is you'd call it in were you
from what's currently in Santa Monica
California and are you due to eSports
are you are you come on man yeah you
know I'm kind of familiar with with the
Romans D D goin from last year's
broadcasts or last season's broadcast
welcome to the show what do you got for
us a man so something that I wanted to
note we talk a lot about the movement of
immortals not too much on oleh so I went
up on his Twitter
oleh as we know one of the players that
has traveled around a lot Brazil
Korea Hong Kong now North America has
been brushing up on his Mandarin
interestingly enough there's a picture
of him on there with Mandarin too -
Mandarin 3 I do not know anything
other than the fact that I saw that
picture when we're talking about
immortals it's like hey it seems like
everyone's landing somewhere it's oh
wait where's this I bought has done his
Twitter page take a look at it yeah and
all this unease holding up a mandarin
book so oh yeah level up in there
November 17th
yeah that's recent - right exactly so a
feeling like Olay will not be leaving
the NA LCS kill me and I'm sure that's
what Hong Kong thought as well
- two things one D gun you're kind of
outshining us cuz your mic quality is
fantastic yeah it's really good I like
your boat man so right now you're kind
of stealing the show a little bit too
much - settle down and - I I think North
America's game to the point we're like
they can not really compete with Chinese
money like you're not gonna get any
other superstars but you know people
said you know song was gonna go to China
for Chinese money and sounds like he's
going to TSM and I think I saw the rumor
said like 300k which is not at all like
crazy Chinese money so I can see a world
where you know Olay doesn't have to go
to China if he wants good money like I
feel like a new team should pay this guy
cuz he's proven but who knows that is a
juicy picture absolutely like all my
interactions with Olay a hard-worker
great teammate even-keeled and even in
that one-on-one with - that they played
before the finals he's willing to have
those hard conversations with players to
get better so any team that could pick
them up I think that'd be great what is
your mic setup it's it's the voiceover
my guy had some voiceover I'm gonna come
to your house to shoot this from now on
yeah yeah I'll bring my lamp I've got
I've got the Philip to you here man oh
there we go
okay hey thanks T Ghana it was good to
hear from you and thanks for having me
on we talked a little bit longer but I
think we got a turn through some people
really good yeah I told everyone we're
in rapid fire mode so I'll just grab
next okay that was cool having D going
on they have my quality though that was
something something else
I used to do a some mark ass Ron Swanson
returned in to the show I remember rerun
sweet and where are you calling from
again just for those that don't know
South Carolina
sighs Carol I've got some calls from
South coming in Dirty South talking
League of Legends yeah Ron what Ron what
do you want to talk about I just wanted
to talk about Kell be talking about
earlier how TNA teams should focus on
winning an A and being popular instead
of winning internationally and I think
from a competitive standpoint that's
just wrong yeah I think that it's like
it is a philosophical approach from a
business perspective that you can take
as an organization but if if people want
to try and you know obviously be
competitive at Worlds I'm not gonna
fault them for pursuing those ambitions
I just think that potentially from
running your business and making it as
successful as possible ultimately what
you care most about is eyeballs
that's twofold I think that results help
popularity a great deal and then
obviously pop personality helps
popularity in a market in which no na
team is having results at Worlds from
there I think that if you're at the top
level and dominating like TSM is your
goal from there we're we're we're
rolling with the assumption here that a
team cannot perform at Worlds and yeah
you aren't pushing that boundary is that
a good competitive mentality take
obviously not I think there's a business
argument that could be made for it in
regards to we are maxing out the
potential of our region in regards to
performance and from there we are
creating the best content we have the
best players we are getting as much
eyeballs to our brand so that we can
attract better sponsors sell more
merchandise get more viewership on the
platform and be the best product from a
fan perspective that na can offer
although I will completely agree and you
know concede the
wait is it a defeatist mentality from a
competitive perspective to take that
viewpoint and say na cannot do better at
world so we'll just give up on it as one
of the leading teams in the region
absolutely yeah sorry my final thoughts
on this just I think from Kelly's
perspective it's actually not that hard
as a business like if you're one of the
GM's and you hold this opinion it's not
that hard because the difference between
winning trying to win North America and
trying to win worlds is such like a slim
margin in a sense that like you can
probably go for the ladder without
convincing when you're not going for
worlds right right right
and the only time that that doesn't work
and I think it's a time here with TSM is
if the players want change if you're if
B Ericsson has the competitive mindset
and he says I need change I can't play
with these players again we're not
winning then you can't help but change
because bjergsen is the most important
person in the brand and he wants to
change so it's one of those times where
as a GM you can probably hide your true
feelings and say yeah we're all for
winning worlds but you're not really but
if your team is gonna fall apart you
kind of have to do with what they want I
think it's fascinating to hear kalbi
talk about this because you could see it
reflect his philosophy reflected in the
CLG when he was there never the second
most popular team in the league and now
they're definitely not and at the time
they were also just a terrible team and
now they're definitely not so I mean
whole transparency like there were times
during the CLG era in which Peters
personality or sorry SS personality was
at the point and he was not at the
maturity level yet where we potentially
thought and there were conversations
around like is Peter the best person on
the team as far as results because of
the environment that he creates for the
team
he's also obviously one of the best
players in na but like are we creating a
situation that is at times you know like
so toxic that like we can't like we
might have better results if we change
and from a business perspective it was
impossible to walk away
doublelift there is no way that the
co-chief brand could have survived in
that era losing that player like he was
way too important to sponsors to the
popularity of the brand like Peter was
CLG at that era TSM doesn't have that
same issue now right because Sauron is
there Peter and even like even if they
lose Sauron it's not something that TSM
won't be fine with but yeah I I mean I I
agree yeah hey thanks for calling out
Kelby Ron Swanson anybody else wants to
call the show and call out Kelby and
future episodes that he'll be gone super
happy yeah
thanks man yeah I appreciate your
thoughts Steve yeah all right so we got
two more callers mark Travis can can you
can you be a little less lazy and drag
them an inch further on us I don't have
per Idol I don't have permissions to add
them in general so if you have
permission thing item two waiting room
yes yes that you are you're this sort of
it yeah it's on you could you be a
little less incompetent it gives me the
permissions are you didn't absolutely
all right we got Joker can't spell
eSports veteran on the show how's it
going hey guys longtime listener
first-time caller yeah where you come
from well that's up dude hey hey hey I
am calling from the east coast I'm in
New York right now okay very cool so
I've had a few things come across my
desk and I guess my question for you
guys is what does BAM Tech gonna have to
do in order to succeed and make that
money that they spent on content
meaningful yeah so first of first this
is a great question yeah - do you guys
want to hear like the insight that I've
heard just like yes well hang on here
late let me for those that don't know
that's what's already of our audience
isn't going to know BAM Tech otherwise
known as MLB advanced media a year ago
people remember I did a interview with
the BAM Tech and the heads of right
eSports about this new deal where BAM
Tech was going to be doing this stream
and they were going to become an
official broadcaster that we're gonna
build out like an app and all this stuff
and a mobile app and and there were
discussions around like a subscription
service a year later nothing is material
and we've heard rumors I think God I'm
sorry that I can't remember that he
sports me just said that broke some
stuff around it but Joe can't spell it
was Richard Lewis yeah possibly possibly
Joker can't spell veteran in the
industry what do you what have you heard
so I ran across a random guy who like he
had he is very close with somebody who
works over there and one of the
situations that they ran into was that
they hired like something like a hundred
engineers in the last seven months and I
want to kill me - I want Kelby to chip
in on this where it's like you know if
you're building a tech product hiring a
hundred engineers is not necessarily the
best solution yes but there's but League
is like the smallest thing that they're
doing right yeah right now and I mean
it's just that kind of scared me and
then the other one is it's kind of like
you know I've seen like these content
deal just go around Travis you're
familiar with how much money like media
makes mark I'm sure you are as well like
you can't one if it's not exclusive
you're not gonna necessarily pull the
audience and the only way you're
monetizing it is through ads like that's
like VAM Tech paid a ton of money for
them welcome action they said that they
I can't remember how they worded it
because as always riotous coy but they
were basically saying they were looking
at a subscription service so like a
premium service where maybe you get
extra features and stuff unlocked or you
get access to a mobile app you know that
basically the experience for fans would
not change as is but that you would be
able to spend money and crickety more
like a better viewers experience for
them yeah from this so that's one way
they were gonna monetize it and then
also through I think spot like they I
think are supposed to help bring in
sales to like sponsors not just like
pre-roll and stuff but sponsors and that
kind of thing into the LCS broadcast I
don't know I mean I just I feel like
that like from my experiences and like
you know trying to compete with twitch
twice over formally azubu by the way
formerly MLG - yeah it's like it's
really hard to pull away audiences and
it's kind of enough you know I mean the
only way that I can see it is maybe
making it exclusive so you say so they
said they would not make it exclusive
but I think I disagree and I say this
knowing there's a twitch employee on the
show I apologize Kelly but I was going
to say that I think you look at done a
pretty good job yeah YouTube with the
LOA sports broadcast has bled viewership
from twitch consistently since they came
in I mean it's been like a five-year
battle for them so yeah there are like
50% so but what happens when if I'm
watching on like the BAM tech official
stream that I get I can earn blue
essence in-game or something like that
right you create a premium experience
that will entice people away I also
think that Riot maybe more than anybody
else on a live streaming platform has
the ability to redirect traffic to
wherever they want to it does have to
come on the show I agree yeah through
the client through law yes I watched
outlaw eSports the comments where I'm
sure where a lot of people watch because
they've got even just having that simple
little stat graphic on the side I think
it's pretty good so I have always been
I've had high hopes and a lot of faith
in this BAM tech teal to be an
interesting a way for LCS to create
revenue but yes it well the biggest
question for me is where is it like a
year later yeah yeah do we think that I
mean BAM Tech has to have outs on this
deal right I like it I can't believe
that it's 300 million upfront right yeah
at what and like how is that weighted at
what point does BAM Tech look at this
and be like man we've spent this much
money so far we have and depending on
the weighting this much coming up we
have these outs potentially to activate
at what point are they like we're making
enough progress on this or not making
enough progress on this we're like it
doesn't make sense for us to continue
anymore and I agree entirely with you
guys that in order to make this thing
impactful and successful for VAM Tech
and for Riot ultimately you have to do
probably like one of two things you
either have two one go exclusive and
that has multiple issues just because
like you have to make it better
yes you have to find a way to serve ads
that don't hit adblock and monetize
sponsor
ship sails against those against that
broadcast that nobody's done in order to
like get anywhere near this you know 50
million dollar-a-year number or you have
to not necessarily create a better
product but reward the viewer more I
think you have to bait them in like you
do in like other eSports titles where
you provide incentives for watching but
that of course has a cost to the
developer that probably goes into their
equation for you know essentially how
much are we willing to pay for people
watching the broadcast and are we making
back more than that from the band Patek
deal from their ability to monetize that
audience I don't necessarily know that
that's very easy no push twist fit right
now is very insistent that we all know
that bam Tech purchased by Disney and
that just you know so majority of the
company I think I think we all know that
in this and it's worth mentioning but it
doesn't change like the financial rules
change something cuz it's like okay if
you look at right there don't buy 10
cent and I've and if I remember seeing
something where 10 cent and Disney were
in conflict over something yeah but I
mean those battles take place across
like there are giant like battlefields
between companies and oftentimes you
know companies will work together in one
area and compete in the other I'm not
too worried too much about that I think
the only thing it does change is Disney
owns ESPN so Disney might be willing to
take a longer loss on this pantech deal
thinking and Disney seems to be pushing
more and more into eSports like not only
do they have ESPN sports but they've
also been putting shit on there they're
Polaris or whether pushing ESPN more
into streaming as well so I think that
the Disney purchase probably does give
the BAM tech deal longer buffer but I I
don't know if yeah I mean the question
is still like they have to do something
at some point in time also how do you
recoup this money also like the problem
is there's just so much to eat like we
know for all we know right I got paid
you know 10 million dollars this year or
something on the other hand right could
have gotten nothing because nothing
happened so we just don't I feel like
they got I feel like they could they had
to
paid you know that yeah yeah I think I
think probably the path for success here
if it happens and I'm not saying it's
easiest is they develop a product that
is really good
somehow it's not it's so hard to do man
with some sort of integration through
the platform tracking you know you're
watching rewarding you for watching and
also putting it on through the client so
that you're getting counting you're
counting the viewership from the people
that are just logged in playing League
of Legends but anybody who's doing
strict like analysis has mystics there
yeah is going to see what the viewers
actually worth and you're just hoping
the people who are buying that inventory
aren't smart about it yeah I had two
more but I don't I feel we probably need
a wrap-up work we're coming up on 1:00
a.m. here so thank you thank you for the
question the idea that was really
awesome cool thanks guys have a good one
see Anton yeah mark you want to grab our
last guy yep okay Mike spam right here
Mike spam a longtime supporter good time
very long time yeah yeah good to touch
very confer Mike spam Oh Seattle Seattle
nice my home city yeah it's great I love
it so good tasty you're gonna close at
our show for us what do you got for us
Mike spam all right all stories and riff
rivals suck yeah yeah these two
tournaments just need to either be
merged into one or just disappear oh I
don't think they should merge them into
one the problem is I don't think that
like rift rivals I think everybody I
think some of us agree that it was but
it's not worth it but from a viewership
perspective and from a riot perspective
I think they'll be like oh this is a
great way we're adding international
competition level you on all stars rift
rivals okay where we take the rift
rivals format and the all-stars voting
and we make it so we have these regional
clashes where people actually care about
the regional clashes then we take that
free week in the middle of the season
put an extra week of break between MSI
and the story of summer
so our MSI teams actually have time to
either prep or be rested and
everything's feathered so it's just the
original stars concept not really
because we're breaking it up again so we
have the na versus EU all start that
happen oh we have the korea-china LMS
wasn't it all start that happens because
what is all stories except my regions
mid laner against faker and fans voting
for the players they didn't get to see
together it works yeah I think you're
extending the out of the league eSports
season even more at this point which is
pretty painful because you're cutting
all stories yeah but for think about the
idea of like a team being together or
something
yeah like a double lifter someone is
playing like let's like double lift is
not going to all-star this year he would
come like he'd lose an even an extra
week this year or in your format you
know only if he got voted into all
stories does he lose that week okay
because already and the current summer
split we have a week where we just take
off for rift rivals all of a sudden oh
so you're saying you're merging these
two so who's going to represent the rift
rivals portioning because what people
liked about rift rivals was that it was
competitive between our top team versus
Europe's top team and we shit on and you
know that's that's where a lot of the
enjoyment came Fri didn't see that
sentiment around rift rivals time maybe
I just completely missed it
I feel like it was there and I I think
so too
yeah that was the only reason it was
acceptable was that like yeah that we
played each other with real teams if you
made rift rivals some fun torment and
put at the end of the year I don't think
anyone would enjoy it yeah I don't think
anyone enjoys all stories well ours is
the worst yeah all sources were signed
on during a whole video just based on
like this weird dichotomy that they
think always they can't ever ever since
the first one was good after that it
just became like all stars is not fun or
it's just fun and and then we don't
reward anybody and then it's like oh all
stars is super serious but it's like
fan-voted and there's no prize pool and
there it's just see is why you're in it
might be it's fun but we're doing the
team fire and team is he party mice was
the worst thing ever the fact that that
lasted for so long is when I disagree
because it gave fans something tangible
no it wasn't tangible it was just like a
bunch of bullshit it's like yeah we
randomly put these guys on ice and
there's no fire there's a whole nother
IP boost yeah it's like in BO do you
think you got a lawyer boat do you think
people really cared about like the IP
boosts and like rallied around like
people like the All Starz is about
regions like people were cheering more I
think for na than they were for Team
fire team ice it gives people a reason
to care about the event itself more than
just I want na to go do well is it made
the event more enjoyable for some fans
in a sense like now there is a reason
for me to vote 14 fire team ice but it
didn't make watching it any more
enjoyable is this I think the port
Travis is making we're like I would
agree with that yes like I can see that
like maybe oh shit well you don't play
the game I do play the game what no you
don't why would you care about IP or
blue essence when you don't care about
because I just don't think that like for
people that are playing I don't think
that IP and blue essence like people
watch eSports for the the regions and
that's why they're cheering they're not
cheering in the hopes that they can get
blue essence I think III agree for the
most part but I do think some fans
probably enjoyed it more than just
random shit I don't think y'all starts
the good I don't know why we're having
this discussion
I mean providing stuff in-game does
Drive a lot of viewership for other
eSports titles it depends what you're
providing
like you could drive your ship that way
but it's not like people are gonna cheer
for I don't know I mean sure the faker
Pearson being on the same computer and
playing was like a pretty of relatively
I don't know how to put this like iconic
moment in a sense yeah for like East
versus West kind of like I don't mind
the fun stuff but I'm just saying team
Ison team fires bullshit what about this
this is another idea I've kicked around
have if we're we have all stories right
now Oh giant 1v1 turret and that's it
it's just a 1v1 tournament and we say
this is a one-off weird wacky event all
these players I don't know what you do
fan vote through what players you want
to see go compete this giant 1v1
tournament yeah I think it I think if
this was a dota concept it would be a
much better idea because you know dota 1
V ones are like skill competitions but
in league I made it I made it so far in
the episode guys before bring this up so
you should be really proud of me but
it's boring losing yeah oh look he hit
us yes oh oh we lost Calvi audio cut out
I don't know what happened that's right
okay so so uh let's let's mics man I
want to thank you for coming on it was
yeah thanks for letting me rant about
yeah I think we yeah that's vastly hated
yeah I think we agree I take no offense
swinging you miss sometimes have a have
a good one Thanks
yeah thanks dude all right so that's the
show uh we'll do some shout outs here
mark you got anything you want to plug
not a ton I mean it's kind of the for me
a little bit of the doldrums I'll be
working on a bunch of random video so
please follow my Twitter at the mark Z
th EE I'll be doing just a lot of like
random stuff I do stuff with offline TV
I do my own league related stuff
I do Nam leave really it stuff a little
bit more now so check out that stuff
yeah uh Kelby I had nothing dude there's
no point to shout out the chainsmokers
anymore so you know what am i what am i
living for
yeah but thanks for having me on this
was super fun time I mean you're
actually a great guest yeah thanks to
our flex past and our best so far
MMP subdue i want to give a shout to
them thank you for that and for everyone
else thanks for watching I really really
like doing the show it's great to be
able to come back and do it again it's
been a bit since we've been able to do
this for me myself I don't have a job
you know mark he's got that great thing
going on over the line TV GG you call
that a job making Scott I mean we try to
do a lot of things together and you're
like I got to go work on off on TV GG
stuff whether you're getting paid or not
you've got a job and and let's be honest
here mark is probably getting paid as
shit-ton cuz scar has just got all that
acer money so all I'm saying is help at
independent media content creator out
Travis CARICOM such support easier
twitch prime sub whatever you know all
that stuff helps thanks a lot and sup to
my youtube channel we'll try to do this
more often
thanks to mark thanks to Kelby thanks
for all the people that called in
another episode in the can thanks guys
see